<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7659 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7659

To authorize and amend authorities, programs, and statutes administered 
                          by the Coast Guard.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 13, 2024

  Mr. Graves of Missouri (for himself, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. 
 Webster of Florida, and Mr. Carbajal) introduced the following bill; 
       which was referred to the Committee on Transportation and 
                             Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize and amend authorities, programs, and statutes administered 
                          by the Coast Guard.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Coast Guard 
Authorization Act of 2024''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Commandant defined.
                TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Shoreside infrastructure and facilities and information 
                            technology.
Sec. 103. Availability of amounts for acquisition of additional vessels 
                            and aircraft.
Sec. 104. Authorization for certain programs and services.
Sec. 105. Authorized levels of military strength and training.
                         TITLE II--COAST GUARD

                Subtitle A--Organization and Authorities

Sec. 201. Prohibition on use of lead systems integrators.
Sec. 202. Minor construction increase.
Sec. 203. Tsunami evacuation plans.
Sec. 204. Service life extension programs.
Sec. 205. Maritime domain awareness in coast guard sector for Puerto 
                            Rico and Virgin Islands.
Sec. 206. Public availability of information on monthly drug and 
                            migrant interdictions.
Sec. 207. Report on establishment of unmanned systems capabilities 
                            office.
Sec. 208. Great Lakes icebreaker.
Sec. 209. Consideration of life-cycle cost estimates for acquisition 
                            and procurement.
Sec. 210. Authorization of certain support for Coast Guard Academy 
                            foundations.
Sec. 211. National Coast Guard Museum.
Sec. 212. Regular Polar Security Cutter updates.
Sec. 213. Technology pilot program.
Sec. 214. Report on condition of Missouri River dayboards.
Sec. 215. Delegation of ports and waterways safety authorities in St. 
                            Lawrence seaway.
Sec. 216. Adjustment of liability limits for natural gas deepwater 
                            ports.
Sec. 217. Study on Coast Guard missions.
                         Subtitle B--Personnel

Sec. 221. Direct hire authority for civilian faculty at the Coast Guard 
                            Academy.
Sec. 222. Temporary exemption from authorized end strength for Coast 
                            Guard enlisted members on active duty.
Sec. 223. Additional available guidance and considerations for reserve 
                            selection boards.
Sec. 224. Parental leave parity for members of certain reserve 
                            components of Coast Guard.
Sec. 225. Authorization for maternity uniform allowance for officers.
Sec. 226. Modification to career intermission program.
Sec. 227. Report on GAO recommendations on housing program.
                   TITLE III--SHIPPING AND NAVIGATION

                     Subtitle A--Vessel Operations

Sec. 301. Definitions.
Sec. 302. Notification.
Sec. 303. Publication of fines and penalties.
               Subtitle B--Merchant Mariner Credentialing

Sec. 311. Revising merchant mariner deck training requirements.
Sec. 312. Amendments.
Sec. 313. Renewal of merchant mariner licenses and documents.
Sec. 314. Merchant seamen licenses, certificates, and documents; 
                            manning of vessels.
                       Subtitle C--Vessel Safety

Sec. 321. Grossly negligent operations of a vessel.
Sec. 322. Administrative procedure for security risks.
Sec. 323. Requirements for DUKW amphibious passenger vessels.
Sec. 324. Risk-based examination of tank vessels.
Sec. 325. Ports and waterways safety.
Sec. 326. Study on Bering Strait vessel traffic projections and 
                            emergency response posture at the port of 
                            Point Spencer, Alaska.
Sec. 327. Underwater inspections brief.
Sec. 328. St. Lucie River railroad bridge.
Sec. 329. Rulemaking regarding port access routes.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 341. Anchor handling activities.
Sec. 342. Establishment of National Advisory Committee on Autonomous 
                            Maritime Systems.
Sec. 343. Controlled substance onboard vessels.
Sec. 344. Nonoperating individual.
Sec. 345. Information on type approval certificates.
Sec. 346. Manning and crewing requirements for certain vessels, 
                            vehicles, and structures.
Sec. 347. Classification societies.
Sec. 348. Authority to establish safety zones for special activities in 
                            exclusive economic zone.
Sec. 349. Fishing vessel and fisherman training safety.
Sec. 350. Authority over Deepwater Port Act of 1974.
Sec. 351. National Offshore Safety Advisory Committee composition.
Sec. 352. Improving Vessel Traffic Service monitoring.
Sec. 353. Abandoned and derelict vessel removals.
               TITLE IV--OIL POLLUTION INCIDENT LIABILITY

Sec. 401. Vessel response plans.
Sec. 402. Use of marine casualty investigations.
Sec. 403. Timing of review.
Sec. 404. Online incident reporting system.
   TITLE V--IMPLEMENTATION OF ACCOUNTABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY REVIEW 
                            RECOMMENDATIONS

Sec. 501. Implementation status of directed actions.
Sec. 502. Independent review of Coast Guard reforms.
Sec. 503. Requirement to maintain certain records.
Sec. 504. Study on Coast Guard Academy oversight.
Sec. 505. Providing for the transfer of a cadet who is the victim of a 
                            sexual assault or related offense.
Sec. 506. Designation of officers with particular expertise in military 
                            justice or healthcare.
Sec. 507. Direct hire authority for certain personnel of Coast Guard.
Sec. 508. Safe-to-report policy for Coast Guard.
Sec. 509. Modification of delivery date of Coast Guard sexual assault 
                            report.
Sec. 510. Higher-level review of board of determination decisions.
Sec. 511. Review of discharge or dismissal.
                          TITLE VI--AMENDMENTS

Sec. 601. Amendments.

SEC. 2. COMMANDANT DEFINED.

    In this Act, the term ``Commandant'' means the Commandant of the 
Coast Guard.

                TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 4902 of title 14, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking 
        ``fiscal years 2022 and 2023'' and inserting ``fiscal years 
        2025 and 2026'';
            (2) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A) by striking clauses (i) and 
                (ii) and inserting the following:
                    ``(i) $11,287,500,000 for fiscal year 2025; and
                    ``(ii) $11,851,875,000 for fiscal year 2026.'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``$23,456,000'' 
                and inserting ``$25,570,000''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (C) by striking ``$24,353,000'' 
                and inserting ``$26,848,500'';
            (3) in paragraph (2)(A) by striking clauses (i) and (ii) 
        and inserting the following:
                    ``(i) $3,477,600,000 for fiscal year 2025; and
                    ``(ii) $3,651,480,000 for fiscal year 2026.'';
            (4) in paragraph (3) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
        and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) $15,415,000 for fiscal year 2025; and
                    ``(B) $16,185,750 for fiscal year 2026.''; and
            (5) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
            ``(4) For retired pay, including the payment of obligations 
        otherwise chargeable to lapsed appropriations for purposes of 
        retired pay, payments under the Retired Serviceman's Family 
        Protection Plan and the Survivor Benefit Plan, payment for 
        career status bonuses, payment of continuation pay under 
        section 356 of title 37, concurrent receipts, combat-related 
        special compensation, and payments for medical care of retired 
        personnel and their dependents under chapter 55 of title 10, 
        $1,147,244,000 for fiscal year 2025.''.

SEC. 102. SHORESIDE INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES AND INFORMATION 
              TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) Information Technology.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
appropriated under section 4902(2)(A) of title 14, United States Code--
            (1) for fiscal year 2025, $36,300,000 is authorized to 
        modernize the Coast Guard's information technology systems, of 
        which $11,000,000 is authorized to fund the acquisition, 
        development, and implementation of a new credentialing system 
        for the Merchant Mariner credentialing program; and
            (2) for fiscal year 2026, $36,300,000 is authorized to 
        modernize the Coast Guard's information technology systems.
    (b) Shoreside Infrastructure.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
appropriated under section 4902(2)(A) of title 14, United States Code--
            (1) for fiscal year 2025, $500,000,000 is authorized to 
        fund maintenance, construction, and repairs for Coast Guard 
        shoreside infrastructure, of which--
                    (A) $225,000,000 is authorized for the purposes of 
                improvements to facilities at the United States Coast 
                Guard Training Center Cape May in Cape May, New Jersey;
                    (B) $10,000,000 is authorized to fund the creation 
                of an infrastructure development plan for the Coast 
                Guard Academy in New London, Connecticut;
                    (C) $50,000,000 is authorized to complete repairs 
                and improvements of Chase Hall at the Coast Guard 
                Academy in New London, Connecticut, including 
                remediation of asbestos, lead, and mold and upgrading 
                the electric outlet availability and storage space in 
                student rooms, and making changes to house not more 
                than 2 Officer Candidates in a room;
                    (D) $70,000,000 is authorized for the purposes of 
                planning, designing, and building a floating drydock at 
                the United States Coast Guard Yard in Baltimore, 
                Maryland;
                    (E) $40,000,000 is authorized for the purposes of 
                planning, designing, and building a hangar to house, at 
                a minimum, 2 HC-130J Super Hercules aircraft at Air 
                Station Barbers Point in Kapolei, Hawaii; and
                    (F) $90,000,000 is authorized to fund waterfront 
                improvements of Coast Guard Base Seattle; and
            (2) for fiscal year 2026, $600,000,000 is authorized to 
        fund maintenance, construction, and repairs for Coast Guard 
        shoreside infrastructure, of which--
                    (A) $125,000,000 is authorized for the purposes of 
                improvements to facilities at the United States Coast 
                Guard Training Center Cape May in Cape May, New Jersey;
                    (B) $100,000,000 is authorized to execute the 
                infrastructure development plan for the Coast Guard 
                Academy in New London, Connecticut developed in 
                paragraph (1)(C);
                    (C) $100,000,000 is authorized for the purposes of 
                planning, designing, and building a floating drydock at 
                the United States Coast Guard Yard in Baltimore, 
                Maryland;
                    (D) $40,000,000 is authorized for the purposes of 
                planning, designing, and building a hangar to house at 
                a minimum 2 HC-130J Super Hercules aircraft at Air 
                Station Barbers Point in Kapolei, Hawaii; and
                    (E) $90,000,000 is authorized to fund waterfront 
                improvements of Coast Guard Base Seattle.

SEC. 103. AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS FOR ACQUISITION OF ADDITIONAL VESSELS 
              AND AIRCRAFT.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2025.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
under section 4902(2)(A) of title 14, United States Code, for fiscal 
year 2025--
            (1) $138,500,000 is authorized for the acquisition or 
        procurement of 1 missionized HC-130J Super Hercules aircraft; 
        and
            (2) $36,000,000 is authorized for the service life 
        extension program and any necessary upgrades of the 47-foot 
        Motor Life Boat.
    (b) Fiscal Year 2026.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
under section 4902(2)(A) of title 14, United States Code, for fiscal 
year 2026--
            (1) $1,200,000,000 is authorized for the acquisition of a 
        Polar Security Cutter;
            (2) $1,100,000,000 is authorized for the acquisition of 2 
        Offshore Patrol Cutters;
            (3) $138,500,000 is authorized for the acquisition or 
        procurement of 1 missionized HC-130J Super Hercules aircraft; 
        and
            (4) $153,500,000 is authorized to outfit and assemble 5 MH-
        60T Jayhawk aircrafts.

SEC. 104. AUTHORIZATION FOR CERTAIN PROGRAMS AND SERVICES.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2025.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
under section 4902(1)(A) of title 14, United States Code, for fiscal 
year 2025--
            (1) $11,978,000 is authorized to fund additional recruiting 
        personnel and offices for the Coast Guard Recruiting Command;
            (2) $9,000,000 is authorized to enhance Coast Guard 
        recruiting capabilities; and
            (3) $25,000,000 is authorized for the implementation of 
        each directed action outlined in enclosure 1 of the memorandum 
        of the Commandant titled ``Commandant's Directed Actions-
        Accountability and Transparency'', dated November 27, 2023.
    (b) Fiscal Year 2026.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
under section 4902(1)(A) of title 14, United States Code, $35,000,000 
is authorized for the implementation of each directed action outlined 
in enclosure 1 of the memorandum of the Commandant titled 
``Commandant's Directed Actions-Accountability and Transparency'', 
dated November 27, 2023.

SEC. 105. AUTHORIZED LEVELS OF MILITARY STRENGTH AND TRAINING.

    Section 4904 of title 14, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) by striking ``fiscal years 2022 and 
        2023'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2025 and 2026''; and
            (2) in subsection (b) by striking ``fiscal years 2022 and 
        2023'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2025 and 2026''.

                         TITLE II--COAST GUARD

                Subtitle A--Organization and Authorities

SEC. 201. PROHIBITION ON USE OF LEAD SYSTEMS INTEGRATORS.

    Section 1105 of title 14, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(c) Lead Systems Integrator Defined.--In this section, the term 
`lead systems integrator' has the meaning given such term in section 
805(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 
(Public Law 109-163).''.

SEC. 202. MINOR CONSTRUCTION INCREASE.

    Section 903(d)(1) of title 14, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``$1,500,000'' and inserting ``$2,000,000''.

SEC. 203. TSUNAMI EVACUATION PLANS.

    (a) Tsunami Evacuation Plans.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commandant, in consultation with the 
        Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration and the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
        Management Agency, shall establish location specific tsunami 
        evacuation plans for each unit and sector of the Coast Guard 
        that has facilities, personnel, or assets located within 
        areas--
                    (A) designated by the Administrator of the National 
                Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration as high risk or 
                very high risk of a United States tsunami hazard; and
                    (B) that are located inside a tsunami inundation 
                zone.
            (2) Evacuation plans.--In establishing the evacuation plans 
        under paragraph (1), the Commandant shall ensure that such 
        plans--
                    (A) are included in the emergency action plans for 
                each unit or sector located inside of a tsunami 
                inundation zone;
                    (B) designate an evacuation route to an assembly 
                area located outside of a tsunami inundation zone;
                    (C) include a map or diagram of all tsunami 
                inundation zone evacuation routes;
                    (D) include evacuation routes for all Coast Guard 
                personnel and dependents of such personnel living in 
                Coast Guard housing;
                    (E) are feasible for all servicemembers and 
                dependents of such servicemembers present on Coast 
                Guard property or living in Coast Guard provided 
                housing;
                    (F) include procedures to begin evacuations once a 
                major seismic event is detected;
                    (G) include evacuation plans for air and water 
                assets that do not impinge on the safety of human life;
                    (H) are able to be completely executed within 15 
                minutes of detection of a seismic event or, if not 
                possible within 15 minutes, within a reasonable 
                timeframe;
                    (I) are able to be completely executed by 
                servicemembers on foot from any location within the 
                tsunami inundation zone;
                    (J) are exercised biennially by each unit and 
                sector located in a tsunami inundation zone; and
                    (K) are evaluated by leadership at each unit and 
                sector located in a tsunami inundation zone annually.
            (3) Consultation.--In establishing the evacuation plans 
        under paragraph (1), the Commandant shall consult local 
        governments.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, 
and provide a briefing to each such Committee on, a report on--
            (1) the status of the implementation and feasibility of the 
        plans established under subsection (a)(1);
            (2) a risk evaluation and vulnerability assessment of the 
        infrastructure and assets located within tsunami inundation 
        zones;
            (3) the need for vertical evacuation structures for units 
        and sectors in which an evacuation of a tsunami inundation zone 
        cannot be completed on foot within 15 minutes of the detection 
        of a seismic event; and
            (4) whether the plans established under subsection (a)(1) 
        achieve the purpose to protect human life and ensure the 
        ability for the Coast Guard to provide search and rescue 
        operations following a tsunami event in the area.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Seismic event.--The term ``seismic event'' means an 
        earthquake, volcanic eruption, submarine landslide, coastal 
        rockfall, or other event with the magnitude to cause a tsunami.
            (2) Tsunami inundation zone.--The term ``tsunami inundation 
        zone'' means an area of inland flooding modeled, predicted, or 
        forecasted as a potential result of a tsunami or seismic event.
            (3) Vertical evacuation structure.--The term ``vertical 
        evacuation structure'' means an elevated structure above the 
        tsunami inundation zone designated as a place of refuge from 
        flood waters.

SEC. 204. SERVICE LIFE EXTENSION PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 11 of title 14, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 1138. Service life extension programs
    ``(a) In General.--Requirements for a Level 1 or Level 2 
acquisition project or program under sections 1131 through 1134 shall 
not apply to an acquisition by the Coast Guard that is a service life 
extension program.
    ``(b) Service Life Extension Program Defined.--In this section, the 
term `service life extension program' means a capital investment that 
is solely intended to extend the service life and address obsolescence 
of components or systems of a particular capability or asset.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 11 of title 14, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 1137 the following:

``1138. Service life extension programs.''.

SEC. 205. MARITIME DOMAIN AWARENESS IN COAST GUARD SECTOR FOR PUERTO 
              RICO AND VIRGIN ISLANDS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report 
containing--
            (1) an overview of the maritime domain awareness in the 
        area of responsibility of the Coast Guard sector responsible 
        for Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands, 
        including--
                    (A) the average volume of known maritime traffic 
                that transited the area during fiscal years 2020 
                through 2023;
                    (B) current sensor platforms deployed by such 
                sector to monitor illicit activity occurring at sea in 
                such area;
                    (C) the number of illicit activity incidents at sea 
                in such area that the sector responded to during fiscal 
                years 2020 through 2023;
                    (D) an estimate of the volume of traffic engaged in 
                illicit activity at sea in such area and the type and 
                description of any vessels used to carry out illicit 
                activities that such sector responded to during fiscal 
                years 2020 through 2023; and
                    (E) the maritime domain awareness requirements to 
                effectively meet the mission of such sector;
            (2) a description of current actions taken by the Coast 
        Guard to partner with Federal, regional, State, and local 
        entities to meet the maritime domain awareness needs of such 
        area;
            (3) a description of any gaps in maritime domain awareness 
        within the area of responsibility of such sector resulting from 
        an inability to meet the enduring maritime domain awareness 
        requirements of the sector or adequately respond to maritime 
        disorder, including illicit drug and migrant activity;
            (4) an identification of current technology and assets the 
        Coast Guard has to mitigate the gaps identified in paragraph 
        (3);
            (5) an identification of capabilities needed to mitigate 
        such gaps, including any capabilities the Coast Guard currently 
        possesses that can be deployed to the sector;
            (6) an identification of technology and assets the Coast 
        Guard does not currently possess and are needed to acquire in 
        order to address such gaps; and
            (7) an identification of any financial obstacles that 
        prevent the Coast Guard from deploying existing commercially 
        available sensor technology to address such gaps.

SEC. 206. PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION ON MONTHLY DRUG AND 
              MIGRANT INTERDICTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 11269 of the Don Young Coast Guard 
Authorization Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-263) is--
            (1) transferred to appear at the end of subchapter II of 
        chapter 5 of title 14, United States Code;
            (2) redesignated as section 529; and
            (3) amended--
                    (A) by striking the section enumerator and heading 
                and inserting the following:
``Sec. 529. Public availability of information on monthly drug and 
              migrant interdictions'';
                    (B) by striking ``Not later than'' and inserting 
                the following:
    ``(a) In General.--Not later than'';
                    (C) by inserting ``drug and'' before ``migrant 
                interdictions''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Contents.--In making information about interdictions publicly 
available under subsection (a), the Commandant shall include a 
description of the following:
            ``(1) The number of incidents in which drugs were 
        interdicted, the amount and type of drugs interdicted, and the 
        Coast Guard sectors and geographic areas of responsibility in 
        which such incidents occurred.
            ``(2) The number of incidents in which migrants were 
        interdicted, the number of migrants interdicted, and the Coast 
        Guard sectors and geographic areas of responsibility in which 
        such incidents occurred.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) The analysis for chapter 5 of title 14, United States 
        Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
        section 528 the following:

``529. Public availability of information on monthly drug and migrant 
                            interdictions.''.
            (2) The table of sections in section 11001(b) of the Don 
        Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022 (division K of 
        Public Law 117-263) is amended by striking the item relating to 
        section 11269.

SEC. 207. REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT OF UNMANNED SYSTEMS CAPABILITIES 
              OFFICE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a 
report that outlines a plan for establishing an unmanned systems 
capabilities office within the Coast Guard responsible for the 
acquisition and development of unmanned system and counter-unmanned 
system technologies and to expand the capabilities of the Coast Guard 
with respect to such technologies.
    (b) Contents.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A management strategy for the acquisition, development, 
        and deployment of unmanned system and counter-unmanned system 
        technologies.
            (2) A service-wide coordination strategy to synchronize and 
        integrate efforts across the Coast Guard in order to--
                    (A) support the primary duties of the Coast Guard 
                pursuant to section 102 of title 14, United States 
                Code; and
                    (B) pursue expanded research, development, testing, 
                and evaluation opportunities and funding to expand and 
                accelerate identification and transition of unmanned 
                system and counter-unmanned system technologies.
            (3) The identification of contracting and acquisition 
        authorities needed to expedite the development and deployment 
        of unmanned system and counter-unmanned system technologies.
            (4) A detailed list of commercially available unmanned 
        system and counter-unmanned system technologies with 
        capabilities determined to be useful for the Coast Guard.
            (5) A cross-agency collaboration plan to engage with the 
        Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Defense, and 
        other relevant agencies to identify common requirements and 
        opportunities to partner in acquiring, contracting, and 
        sustaining unmanned system and counter-unmanned system 
        capabilities.
            (6) Opportunities to obtain and share unmanned system data 
        from government and commercial sources to improve maritime 
        domain awareness.
            (7) The development of a concept of operations for a data 
        ecosystem that supports and integrates unmanned system and 
        counter-unmanned system technologies with key enablers, 
        including enterprise communications networks, data storage and 
        management, artificial intelligence and machine learning tools, 
        and information sharing and dissemination capabilities.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Counter-unmanned system.--The term ``counter-unmanned 
        system'' means a system or device capable of lawfully and 
        safely disabling, disrupting, or seizing control of an unmanned 
        system, including a counter-UAS system (as such term is defined 
        in section 44801 of title 49, United States Code).
            (2) Unmanned system.--The term ``unmanned system'' means an 
        unmanned surface, undersea, or aircraft and associated elements 
        (including communication links and the components that control 
        the unmanned system) that are required for the operator to 
        operate the system safely and efficiently, including an 
        unmanned aircraft system (as such term is defined in section 
        44801 of title 49, United States Code).

SEC. 208. GREAT LAKES ICEBREAKER.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a strategy 
detailing how the Coast Guard will complete design and construction of 
the Great Lakes icebreaker at least as capable as the Coast Guard 
Cutter Mackinaw (WLBB-30) in not more than 3 years after funding is 
provided for such icebreaker.

SEC. 209. CONSIDERATION OF LIFE-CYCLE COST ESTIMATES FOR ACQUISITION 
              AND PROCUREMENT.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 11 of title 46, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 1138. Consideration of life-cycle cost estimates for acquisition 
              and procurement
    ``In carrying out the acquisition and procurement of vessels and 
aircraft, the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is 
operating, acting through the Commandant of the Coast Guard, shall 
consider the life-cycle cost estimates of vessels and aircraft, as 
applicable, during the design and evaluation processes to the maximum 
extent practicable.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 11 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 1137 the following:

``1138. Consideration of life-cycle cost estimates for acquisition and 
                            procurement.''.

SEC. 210. AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN SUPPORT FOR COAST GUARD ACADEMY 
              FOUNDATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 19 of title 14, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 1907. Authorization of certain support for Coast Guard Academy 
              foundations
    ``(a) Authority.--Subject to subsection (b) and pursuant to 
regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the department in which the 
Coast Guard is operating, the Superintendent of the Coast Guard Academy 
may authorize a covered foundation to use, on an unreimbursed basis, 
facilities or equipment of the Coast Guard Academy.
    ``(b) Limitations.--Use of facilities or equipment under subsection 
(a) may be provided only if such use has been reviewed and approved by 
an attorney of the Coast Guard and only if such use--
            ``(1) is without any liability of the United States to the 
        covered foundation;
            ``(2) does not affect the ability of any official or 
        employee of the Coast Guard, or any member of the Armed Forces, 
        to carry out any responsibility or duty in a fair and objective 
        manner;
            ``(3) does not compromise the integrity or appearance of 
        integrity of any program of the Coast Guard, or any individual 
        involved in such a program;
            ``(4) does not include the participation of any cadet other 
        than participation in an honor guard at an event of the covered 
        foundation; and
            ``(5) complies with any applicable ethics regulations.
    ``(c) Briefing.--In any fiscal year during which the Superintendent 
of the Coast Guard Academy exercises the authority under subsection 
(a), the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall provide a briefing to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate not later than the last day of that fiscal 
year regarding the number of events or activities of a covered 
foundation supported by such exercise during such fiscal year.
    ``(d) Covered Foundation Defined.--In this section, the term 
`covered foundation' means a charitable, educational, or civic 
nonprofit organization under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986, that the Secretary concerned determines operates 
exclusively to support, with respect to a Service Academy, any of the 
following:
            ``(1) Recruiting.
            ``(2) Parent or alumni development.
            ``(3) Academic, leadership, or character development.
            ``(4) Institutional development.
            ``(5) Athletics.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 19 of title 14, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 1906 the following:

``1907. Authorization of certain support for Coast Guard Academy 
                            foundations.''.

SEC. 211. NATIONAL COAST GUARD MUSEUM.

    Section 316 of title 14, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' 
                and inserting ``Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
                the Secretary''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2) by striking ``engineering and 
                design of a Museum'' and inserting ``design of a 
                Museum, and engineering, construction administration, 
                and quality assurance services of a Museum'';
            (2) by amending subsection (e)(2)(A) to read as follows:
                    ``(A) lease from the Association for Coast Guard 
                operations the Museum and properties owned by the 
                Association adjacent to the railroad tracks to which 
                the property on which the Museum is located are 
                adjacent; and''; and
            (3) by amending subsection (g) to read as follows:
    ``(g) Services.--With respect to the services related to the 
construction, maintenance, and operation of the Museum, the Commandant 
may--
            ``(1) solicit and accept services from nonprofit entities, 
        including the Association; and
            ``(2) enter into contracts or memorandums of agreement with 
        or make grants to the Association to acquire such services.''.

SEC. 212. REGULAR POLAR SECURITY CUTTER UPDATES.

    (a) Report.--
            (1) Report to congress.--Not later than 60 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to 
        the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House 
        of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate a report on the status of 
        acquisition of the first Polar Security Cutter.
            (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
        include--
                    (A) a detailed timeline for the acquisition process 
                of the first Polar Security Cutter, including expected 
                milestones and projected commissioning date;
                    (B) an accounting of the previously appropriated 
                funds spent to date on the Polar Security Cutter 
                Program, updated cost projections for the first Polar 
                Security Cutter, and projections for when additional 
                funds will be required;
                    (C) potential factors and risks that could further 
                delay or imperil the completion of the first Polar 
                Security Cutter; and
                    (D) a review of the acquisition of the first Polar 
                Security Cutter to date, including factors that led to 
                substantial cost overruns and delivery delays.
    (b) Briefings.--
            (1) Provision to congress.--Not later than 60 days after 
        the submission of the report under subsection (a), and not less 
        frequently than every 60 days thereafter, the Commandant shall 
        provide to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
        of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate a briefing on the 
        status of the Polar Security Cutter acquisition process.
            (2) Timeline.--The briefings under paragraph (1) shall 
        occur after any key milestone in the Polar Security Cutter 
        acquisition process, but not less frequently than every 60 
        days.
            (3) Elements.--Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall 
        include--
                    (A) a summary of acquisition progress since the 
                most recent previous briefing conducted pursuant to 
                paragraph (1);
                    (B) an updated timeline and budget estimate for 
                acquisition and building of pending Polar Security 
                Cutters; and
                    (C) an explanation of any delays or additional 
                costs incurred in the acquisition progress.
    (c) Notifications.--In addition to the briefings required under 
subsection (b), the Commandant shall notify the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
within 3 business days of any significant change to the scope or 
funding level of the Polar Security Cutter acquisition strategy of such 
change.

SEC. 213. TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAM.

    Section 319(b)(1) of title 14, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``2'' and inserting ``4''.

SEC. 214. REPORT ON CONDITION OF MISSOURI RIVER DAYBOARDS.

    (a) Provision to Congress.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
Senate a report on the condition of dayboards and the placement of 
buoys on the Missouri River.
    (b) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include--
            (1) a list of the most recent date on which each dayboard 
        and buoy was serviced by the Coast Guard;
            (2) an overview of the plan of the Coast Guard to 
        systematically service each dayboard and buoy on the Missouri 
        River; and
            (3) assigned points of contact.

SEC. 215. DELEGATION OF PORTS AND WATERWAYS SAFETY AUTHORITIES IN ST. 
              LAWRENCE SEAWAY.

    Section 70032 of title 46, United States Code, is amended to read 
as follows:
``Sec. 70032. Saint Lawrence Seaway
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
authority granted to the Secretary under sections 70001, 70002, 70003, 
70004, and 70011 may not be delegated with respect to the Saint 
Lawrence Seaway to any agency other than the Great Lakes Saint Lawrence 
Seaway Development Corporation. Any other authority granted the 
Secretary under subchapters I through III and this subchapter shall be 
delegated by the Secretary to the Great Lakes Saint Lawrence Seaway 
Development Corporation to the extent the Secretary determines such 
delegation is necessary for the proper operation of the Saint Lawrence 
Seaway.
    ``(b) Exception.--The Secretary of the department in which the 
Coast Guard is operating, after consultation with the Secretary of 
Transportation, or the head of an agency to which the Secretary has 
delegated the authorities in subsection (a), may--
            ``(1) issue and enforce special orders in accordance with 
        section 70002;
            ``(2) establish water or waterfront safety zones, or other 
        measures, for limited, controlled, or conditional access and 
        activity when necessary for the protection of any vessel 
        structure, waters, or shore area, as permitted in section 
        70011(b)(2); and
            ``(3) take actions for port, harbor, and coastal facility 
        security in accordance with section 70116.''.

SEC. 216. ADJUSTMENT OF LIABILITY LIMITS FOR NATURAL GAS DEEPWATER 
              PORTS.

    Section 1004(d)(2) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 
2704(d)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Deepwater ports and associated vessels.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If the Secretary determines that 
                the design and operation of a class or category of 
                deepwater port results in a lower risk of oil pollution 
                than other deepwater ports, the Secretary may initiate 
                a rulemaking proceeding to lower the limit of liability 
                under subsection (a)(4) for such class or category of 
                deepwater port.
                    ``(B) Considerations.--In determining the risk of 
                oil pollution for a class or category of deepwater port 
                under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall take into 
                account the size, oil storage capacity, oil handling 
                capacity, oil throughput, proximity to sensitive areas, 
                type of oil handled, history of oil discharges, and any 
                other factors relevant to the oil pollution risks posed 
                by the class or category of deepwater port and 
                associated vessels, as the Secretary determines 
                appropriate.
                    ``(C) Amount of liability limit.--In lowering the 
                limit of liability for a class or category of deepwater 
                port under this paragraph, the Secretary may establish 
                a limit of liability of--
                            ``(i) not less than $50,000,000 for 
                        deepwater ports used in connection with the 
                        transportation of oil; and
                            ``(ii) not less than $1,000,000 for 
                        deepwater ports used in connection with the 
                        transportation of natural gas.''.

SEC. 217. STUDY ON COAST GUARD MISSIONS.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall seek to enter into 
        an agreement with a federally funded research and development 
        center with relevant expertise under which such center shall 
        conduct an assessment of the operational capabilities and 
        ability of the Coast Guard to conduct the primary duties of the 
        Coast Guard under section 102 of title 14, United States Code, 
        and missions under section 888 of the Homeland Security Act of 
        2002 (6 U.S.C. 468).
            (2) Elements.--In carrying out the assessment required 
        under paragraph (1), the federally funded research and 
        development center selected under such subsection shall, with 
        respect to the primary duties and missions described in 
        paragraph (1), include the following:
                    (A) An analysis of the extent to which the Coast 
                Guard is able to effectively carry out such duties and 
                missions.
                    (B) Recommendations for the Coast Guard to more 
                effectively carry out such duties and missions, in 
                light of manpower and asset constraints.
                    (C) Recommendations of which such duties and 
                missions should be transferred to other departments or 
                eliminated in light of the manpower and asset 
                constraints of the Coast Guard.
                    (D) An analysis of the benefits and drawbacks of 
                transferring the Coast Guard or any of the duties and 
                missions of the Cost Guard to other appropriate Federal 
                departments or independent agencies.
    (b) Assessment to Commandant.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
on which Commandant enters into an agreement under section (a), the 
federally funded research and development center selected under such 
subsection shall submit to the Commandant the assessment required under 
subsection (a).
    (c) Report to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after receipt of 
        the assessment under subsection (b), the Commandant shall 
        submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report that 
        includes recommendations included in the assessment to 
        strengthen the ability of the Coast Guard to carry out such 
        duties and missions.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) The assessment received by the Commandant under 
                subsection (b).
                    (B) For each recommendation included in the such 
                assessment--
                            (i) an assessment by the Commandant of the 
                        feasibility and advisability of implementing 
                        such recommendation; and
                            (ii) if the Commandant of the Coast Guard 
                        considers the implementation of such 
                        recommendation feasible and advisable, a 
                        description of the actions taken, or to be 
                        taken, to implement such recommendation.

                         Subtitle B--Personnel

SEC. 221. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR CIVILIAN FACULTY AT THE COAST GUARD 
              ACADEMY.

    Section 1941 of title 14, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) The Secretary may, without regard to the appointment 
requirements of title 5, United States Code, noncompetitively appoint a 
highly qualified candidate to a faculty position in the excepted 
service.''.

SEC. 222. TEMPORARY EXEMPTION FROM AUTHORIZED END STRENGTH FOR COAST 
              GUARD ENLISTED MEMBERS ON ACTIVE DUTY.

    Notwithstanding section 517 of title 10, United States Code, and 
until October 1, 2027, the authorized end strength for enlisted members 
on active duty (other than for training) in the Coast Guard in pay 
grades E-8 and E-9 may be more than 3.0 percent and 1.25 percent 
respectively of the number of enlisted members of the Coast Guard who 
are on active duty other than for training.

SEC. 223. ADDITIONAL AVAILABLE GUIDANCE AND CONSIDERATIONS FOR RESERVE 
              SELECTION BOARDS.

    Section 3740(f) of title 14, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``section 2117'' and inserting ``sections 2115 and 2117''.

SEC. 224. PARENTAL LEAVE PARITY FOR MEMBERS OF CERTAIN RESERVE 
              COMPONENTS OF COAST GUARD.

    (a) Parental Leave.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 29 of title 14, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
``Sec. 2907. Parental leave for members of certain reserve components 
              of Coast Guard
    ``(a)(1) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, a member of 
the reserve component of the Coast Guard described in subsection (b) is 
allowed parental leave for a duration of up to 12 inactive-duty 
training periods, under section 206 of title 37, during the one-year 
period beginning after the following events:
            ``(A) the birth or adoption of a child of the member and to 
        care for such child; or
            ``(B) the placement of a minor child with the member for 
        adoption or long-term foster care.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard 
is operating, may authorize leave described under subparagraph (A) to 
be taken after the one-year period described in subparagraph (A) in the 
case of a member described in subsection (b) who, except for this 
subparagraph, would lose unused parental leave at the end of the one-
year period described in subparagraph (A) as a result of--
            ``(i) operational requirements;
            ``(ii) professional military education obligations; or
            ``(iii) other circumstances that the Secretary determines 
        reasonable and appropriate.
    ``(B) The regulations prescribed under clause (i) shall require 
that any leave authorized to be taken after the one-year period 
described in subparagraph (A) shall be taken within a reasonable period 
of time, as determined by the Secretary in which the department is 
operating, after cessation of the circumstances warranting the extended 
deadline.
    ``(b) A member described in this subsection is a member of the 
Coast Guard who is a member of--
            ``(1) the selected reserve who is entitled to compensation 
        under section 206 of title 37; or
            ``(2) the individual ready reserve who is entitled to 
        compensation under section 206 of title 37 when attending or 
        participating in a sufficient number of periods of inactive-
        duty training during a year to count the year as a qualifying 
        year of creditable service toward eligibility for retired 
        pay.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 29 of 
        title 14, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 2906 the following:

``2907. Parental leave for members of certain reserve components of 
                            Coast Guard.''.
    (b) Compensation.--Section 206(a)(4) of title 37, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting before the period at the end ``or 
parental leave under section 2907 of title 14''.

SEC. 225. AUTHORIZATION FOR MATERNITY UNIFORM ALLOWANCE FOR OFFICERS.

    Section 2708 of title 14, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(c) The Coast Guard may provide a cash allowance in such amount 
as the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is 
operating shall determine in regulations to be paid to pregnant officer 
personnel for the purchase of maternity-related uniform items if such 
uniform items are not so furnished to the member.''.

SEC. 226. MODIFICATION TO CAREER INTERMISSION PROGRAM.

    Section 2514 of title 14, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(3) by striking ``2 months'' and 
        inserting ``1 month''; and
            (2) in subsection (h)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1) by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (2) by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) the entitlement of the member and of the survivors of 
        the member to all death benefits under the provisions of 
        chapter 75 of title 10;
            ``(4) the provision of all travel and transportation 
        allowances for the survivors of deceased members to attend 
        burial ceremonies under section 481f of title 37; and
            ``(5) the eligibility of the member for general benefits as 
        provided in part II of title 38.''.

SEC. 227. REPORT ON GAO RECOMMENDATIONS ON HOUSING PROGRAM.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report on the 
status of the implementation of the recommendations contained in the 
report of the Government Accountability Office titled ``Coast Guard: 
Better Feedback Collection and Information Could Enhance Housing 
Program'', and issued February 5, 2024 (GAO-24-106388).

                   TITLE III--SHIPPING AND NAVIGATION

                     Subtitle A--Vessel Operations

SEC. 301. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Outer continental shelf.--The term ``outer Continental 
        Shelf'' has the meaning given such term in section 2 of the 
        Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331).
            (2) Ruling letter.--The term ``ruling letter'' means any 
        ruling letter or headquarters ruling letter relating to the 
        enforcement of chapters 121 and 551 of title 46, United States 
        Code (commonly referred to as the ``Jones Act''), issued by the 
        Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection pursuant to 
        sections 502(a) or 625 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 
        1502(a) and 1625).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Homeland Security, acting through the Commissioner of U.S. 
        Customs and Border Protection.

SEC. 302. NOTIFICATION.

    (a) Advance Notification Required.--Prior to engaging in any 
activity or operations on the outer Continental Shelf, the operator of 
a foreign vessel used in such activity or operations shall file with 
the Secretary a notification describing all activities and operations 
to be performed on the outer Continental Shelf and an identification of 
applicable ruling letters issued by the Secretary that have approved 
the use of a foreign vessel in a substantially similar activity or 
operation.
    (b) Publication of Notices.--
            (1) Publication.--The Secretary shall publish a 
        notification under subsection (a) in the Customs Bulletin and 
        Decisions within 14 days of receipt of such notification.
            (2) Confidential information.--The Secretary shall redact 
        any information exempt from disclosure under section 552 of 
        title 5, United States Code, in a notification published under 
        paragraph (1).

SEC. 303. PUBLICATION OF FINES AND PENALTIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 55102 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Publication of Penalty.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 14 days after the 
        issuance of a pre-penalty notice or a penalty, including a 
        settlement, under subsection (c), the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security shall publish such pre-penalty notice or a 
        notification of such penalty in the Customs Bulletin and 
        Decisions to the party impacted by the penalty.
            ``(2) Contents.--A pre-penalty notice or penalty 
        notification published under paragraph (1) shall include--
                    ``(A) the name and the International Maritime 
                Organization identification number of the vessel that 
                is the subject of the penalty;
                    ``(B) the name of the owner of the vessel that is 
                the subject of the penalty;
                    ``(C) the amount of the fine or value of 
                merchandise seized; and
                    ``(D) a summary of the alleged misconduct and 
                justification for imposing a penalty.''.
    (b) Rulemaking.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall issue such regulations as are 
necessary to implement the amendments made by subsection (a), 
including--
            (1) regulations regarding the information to be contained 
        in a penalty notification under section 55102(d) of title 46, 
        United States Code (as amended by such subsection); and
            (2) any changes to existing regulations relating to 
        penalties issued by the Secretary.

               Subtitle B--Merchant Mariner Credentialing

SEC. 311. REVISING MERCHANT MARINER DECK TRAINING REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) General Definitions.--Section 2101 of title 46, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (20) through (56) as 
        paragraphs (21) through (57), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (19) the following:
            ``(20) `merchant mariner credential' means a merchant 
        mariner license, certificate, or document that the Secretary is 
        authorized to issue pursuant to this title.''.
    (b) Examinations.--Section 7116 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended by striking subsection (c).
    (c) Merchant Mariners Documents.--
            (1) General requirements.--Section 7306 of title 46, United 
        States Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 7306. General requirements and classifications for members of 
              deck departments
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may issue a merchant mariner 
credential, to members of the deck department in the following classes:
            ``(1) Able Seaman-Unlimited.
            ``(2) Able Seaman-Limited.
            ``(3) Able Seaman-Special.
            ``(4) Able Seaman-Offshore Supply Vessels.
            ``(5) Able Seaman-Sail.
            ``(6) Able Seaman-Fishing Industry.
            ``(7) Ordinary Seaman.
    ``(b) Classification of Credentials.--The Secretary may classify 
the merchant mariner credential issued under subsection (a) based on--
            ``(1) the tonnage and means of propulsion of vessels;
            ``(2) the waters on which vessels are to be operated; or
            ``(3) other appropriate standards.
    ``(c) Considerations.--In issuing the credential under subsection 
(a), the Secretary may consider the following qualifications of the 
merchant mariner:
            ``(1) Age.
            ``(2) Character.
            ``(3) Habits of life.
            ``(4) Experience.
            ``(5) Professional qualifications demonstrated by 
        satisfactory completion of applicable examinations or other 
        educational requirements.
            ``(6) Physical condition, including sight and hearing.
            ``(7) Other requirements established by the Secretary, 
        including career patterns and service appropriate to the 
        particular service, industry, or job functions the individual 
        is engaged.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 73 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 7306 and inserting the following:

``7306. General requirements and classifications for members of deck 
                            departments.''.
            (3) General requirements for members of engine 
        departments.--Section 7313(b) of title 46, United States Code, 
        is amended by striking ``and coal passer''.
            (4) Training.--Section 7315 of title 46, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) Graduation from a nautical school program approved by the 
Secretary may be substituted for the service requirements under 
sections 7307-7312 and 7314.'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by striking ``one-third'' and inserting 
                        ``one-half''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``7307-7311 of this 
                        title'' and inserting ``7307-7312 and 7314''; 
                        and
                    (C) by striking subsection (c).
    (d) Reduction of Lengths of Certain Periods of Service.--
            (1) In general.--Title 46, United States Code, is amended 
        as follows:
                    (A) Section 7307 is amended by striking ``18 
                months'' and inserting ``3 years''.
                    (B) Section 7308 is amended by striking ``12 
                months'' and inserting ``18 months''.
                    (C) Section 7309 is amended by striking ``6 
                months'' and inserting ``12 months''.
            (2) Temporary reduction of lengths of certain periods of 
        service.--Section 3534(j) of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-31) is repealed.
    (e) Merchant Mariner Credentials.--Section 7510 of title 46, United 
States Code, is amended by striking subsection (d).
    (f) Implementation.--The Secretary of the department in which the 
Coast Guard is operating shall implement the amended requirements under 
subsections (c)(3), (c)(4), and (c)(6) of this section without regard 
to chapters 5 and 6 of title 5, United States Code, and Executive 
Orders 12866 and 13563 (5 U.S.C. 601 note).

SEC. 312. AMENDMENTS.

    (a) In General.--The heading for part E of subtitle II of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``merchant seamen licenses, 
certificates, and documents'' and inserting ``merchant mariner 
credentials''.
    (b) Able Seafarers--Unlimited.--
            (1) In general.--The section heading for section 7307 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking ``seamen'' 
        and inserting ``seafarers''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 73 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is further amended in the item 
        relating to section 7307 by striking ``seamen'' and inserting 
        ``seafarers''.
    (c) Able Seamen--Limited.--
            (1) In general.--The section heading for section 7308 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking ``seamen'' 
        and inserting ``seafarers''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 73 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is further amended in the item 
        relating to section 7308 by striking ``seamen'' and inserting 
        ``seafarers''.
    (d) Able Seafarers--Special.--
            (1) In general.--The section heading for section 7309 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking ``seamen'' 
        and inserting ``seafarers''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 73 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is further amended in the item 
        relating to section 7309 by striking ``seamen'' and inserting 
        ``seafarers''.
    (e) Able Seafarers--Offshore Supply Vessels.--
            (1) In general.--The section heading for section 7310 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking ``seamen'' 
        and inserting ``seafarers''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 73 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is further amended in the item 
        relating to section 7310 by striking ``seamen'' and inserting 
        ``seafarers''.
    (f) Able Seafarers--Sail.--
            (1) In general.--The section heading for section 7311 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking ``seamen'' 
        and inserting ``seafarers''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 73 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is further amended in the item 
        relating to section 7311 by striking ``seamen'' and inserting 
        ``seafarers''.
    (g) Able Seamen--Fishing Industry.--
            (1) In general.--The section heading for section 7311a of 
        title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking ``seamen'' 
        and inserting ``seafarers''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 73 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is further amended in the item 
        relating to section 7311a by striking ``seamen'' and inserting 
        ``seafarers''.
    (h) Parts E and F.--Parts E and F of subtitle II of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``seaman'' and inserting ``seafarer'' each 
        place it appears; and
            (2) by striking ``seamen'' and inserting ``seafarers'' each 
        place it appears.
    (i) Clerical Amendments.--The analysis for subtitle II of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the item relating to subtitle II by striking 
        ``Seamen'' and inserting ``Seafarer''; and
            (2) in the item relating to part E by striking ``MERCHANT 
        SEAMEN LICENSES, CERTIFICATES, AND DOCUMENTS'' and inserting 
        ``MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIALS''.

SEC. 313. RENEWAL OF MERCHANT MARINER LICENSES AND DOCUMENTS.

    Section 7507 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(d) Renewal.--With respect to any renewal of an active merchant 
mariner credential issued under this part that is not an extension 
under subsection (a) or (b), such credential shall begin the day after 
the expiration of the active credential of the credential holder.''.

SEC. 314. MERCHANT SEAMEN LICENSES, CERTIFICATES, AND DOCUMENTS; 
              MANNING OF VESSELS.

    (a) Citizenship or Noncitizen Nationality.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7102 of title 46, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in the section heading by inserting ``or 
                noncitizen nationality'' after ``Citizenship''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or noncitizen nationals (as such 
                term is described in section 308 of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1408)'' after ``citizens''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 71 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 7102 and inserting the following:

``7102. Citizenship or noncitizen nationality.''.
    (b) Citizenship or Noncitizen Nationality Notation on Merchant 
Mariners' Documents.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7304 of title 46, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in the section heading by inserting ``or 
                noncitizen nationality'' after ``Citizenship''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or noncitizen national (as such 
                term is described in section 308 of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1408)'' after ``citizen''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 73 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 7304 and inserting the following:

``7304. Citizenship or noncitizen nationality on merchant mariners' 
                            documents.''.
    (c) Citizenship or Noncitizen Nationality.--
            (1) In general.--Section 8103 of title 46, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in the section heading by inserting ``or 
                noncitizen nationality'' after ``Citizenship'';
                    (B) in subsection (a) by inserting ``or noncitizen 
                national'' after ``citizen'';
                    (C) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)(A)(i) by inserting 
                        ``or noncitizen national'' after ``citizen'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (3) by inserting ``or 
                        noncitizen nationality'' after ``citizenship''; 
                        and
                            (iii) in paragraph (3)(C) by inserting ``or 
                        noncitizen nationals'' after ``citizens'';
                    (D) in subsection (c) by inserting ``or noncitizen 
                nationals'' after ``citizens'';
                    (E) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1) by inserting ``or 
                        noncitizen nationals'' after ``citizens''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``or 
                        noncitizen national'' after ``citizen'' each 
                        place it appears;
                    (F) in subsection (e) by inserting ``or noncitizen 
                national'' after ``citizen'' each place it appears;
                    (G) in subsection (i)(1)(A) by inserting ``or 
                noncitizen national'' after ``citizen'';
                    (H) in subsection (k)(1)(A) by inserting ``or 
                noncitizen national'' after ``citizen''; and
                    (I) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(l) Noncitizen National Defined.--In this section, the term 
`noncitizen national' means an individual described in section 308 of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1408).''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 81 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 8103 and inserting the following:

``8103. Citizenship or noncitizen nationality and Navy Reserve 
                            requirements.''.
    (d) Command of Documented Vessels.--Section 12131(a) of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting ``or noncitizen national 
(as such term is described in section 308 of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1408))'' after ``citizen''.
    (e) Invalidation of Certificates of Documentation.--Section 
12135(2) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``or 
noncitizen national (as such term is described in section 308 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1408))'' after ``citizen''.

                       Subtitle C--Vessel Safety

SEC. 321. GROSSLY NEGLIGENT OPERATIONS OF A VESSEL.

    Section 2302(b) of title 46, United States Code, is amended to read 
as follows:
    ``(b) Grossly Negligent Operation.--
            ``(1) Misdemeanor.--A person operating a vessel in a 
        grossly negligent manner that endangers the life, limb, or 
        property of a person commits a class A misdemeanor.
            ``(2) Felony.--A person operating a vessel in a grossly 
        negligent manner that results in serious bodily injury, as 
        defined in section 1365(h)(3) of title 18--
                    ``(A) commits a class E felony; and
                    ``(B) may be assessed a civil penalty of not more 
                than $35,000.''.

SEC. 322. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE FOR SECURITY RISKS.

    (a) Security Risk.--Section 7702(d)(1) of title 46, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B) by redesignating clauses (i) 
        through (iv) as subclauses (I) through (IV), respectively (and 
        by conforming the margins accordingly);
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses 
        (i) and (ii), respectively (and by conforming the margins 
        accordingly);
            (3) by striking ``an individual if--'' and inserting the 
        following: ``an individual--
                    ``(A) if--'';
            (4) in subparagraph (A)(ii)(IV), as so redesignated, by 
        striking the period at the end and inserting ``; or''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) if there is probable cause to believe that 
                the individual has violated company policy and is a 
                security risk that poses a threat to other individuals 
                on the vessel.''.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 2101(47)(B) of title 46, United 
States Code (as so redesignated), is amended by striking ``; and'' and 
inserting ``; or''.

SEC. 323. REQUIREMENTS FOR DUKW AMPHIBIOUS PASSENGER VESSELS.

    Section 11502 of the James H. Inhofe National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) is amended--
            (1) in the section header by striking ``dukw amphibious 
        passenger vessels'' and inserting ``commercial amphibious small 
        passenger vessels'';
            (2) by striking ``DUKW amphibious passenger vessel'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``commercial amphibious small 
        passenger vessel'';
            (3) by striking ``DUKW amphibious passenger vessels'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``commercial amphibious small 
        passenger vessels'';
            (4) in subsection (h)--
                    (A) by striking ``Definitions'' and all that 
                follows through ``the term `appropriate congressional 
                committees''' and inserting ``Appropriate Congressional 
                Committees Defined.--The term `appropriate 
                congressional committees'''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(i) Application.--This section shall 
                        apply to amphibious vessels operating as a 
                        small passenger vessel in waters subject to the 
                        jurisdiction of the United States, as such term 
                        is defined in section 2.38 of title 33, Code of 
                        Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date 
                        of enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization 
                        Act of 2024).''.

SEC. 324. RISK-BASED EXAMINATION OF TANK VESSELS.

    Section 3714 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``The Secretary'' and 
        inserting ``Except as provided in subsection (c), the 
        Secretary'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Risk-Based Examination.--
            ``(1) In general.--With respect to examinations of foreign-
        flagged vessels to which this chapter applies, the Secretary 
        may adopt a risk-based examination schedule to which such 
        vessels shall be examined and the frequency with which the 
        examinations occur.
            ``(2) Restriction.--The Secretary may not adopt a risk-
        based examination schedule under paragraph (1) until the 
        Secretary has--
                    ``(A) received and reviewed the study by the 
                National Academies required under section 8254(b) of 
                the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-
                283);
                    ``(B) conducted the assessment recommended in the 
                report of the Government Accountability Office 
                submitted under section 8254(a) of such Act;
                    ``(C) concluded through such assessment that a 
                risk-based examination schedule provides not less than 
                the level of safety provided by the annual examinations 
                required under subsection (a)(1); and
                    ``(D) provided the results of such assessment to 
                the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
                the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
                Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.''.

SEC. 325. PORTS AND WATERWAYS SAFETY.

    (a) Waterfront Safety.--Section 70011(a) of title 46, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by inserting ``, including damage or 
        destruction resulting from cyber incidents, transnational 
        organized crime, or foreign state threats'' after ``adjacent to 
        such waters''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``or harm resulting from 
        cyber incidents, transnational organized crime, or foreign 
        state threats'' after ``loss''.
    (b) Regulation of Anchorage and Movement of Vessels During National 
Emergency.--Section 70051 of title 46, United States Code, is amended 
by inserting ``or cyber incidents, or transnational organized crime, or 
foreign state threats,'' after ``threatened war, or invasion, or 
insurrection, or subversive activity,''.
    (c) Facility Visit by State Sponsor of Terrorism.--Section 70011(b) 
of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3) by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (4) by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) prohibiting a representative of a government of 
        country that the Secretary of State has determined has 
        repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism 
        under section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
        U.S.C. 2371) from visiting a facility for which a facility 
        security plan is required under section 70103(c).''.

SEC. 326. STUDY ON BERING STRAIT VESSEL TRAFFIC PROJECTIONS AND 
              EMERGENCY RESPONSE POSTURE AT THE PORT OF POINT SPENCER, 
              ALASKA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall seek to enter into an 
agreement with the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and 
Medicine, under which the Marine Board of the Transportation Research 
Board (in this section referred to as the ``Board'') shall conduct a 
study to--
            (1) analyze commercial vessel traffic that transits through 
        the Bering Strait and projections for the growth of such 
        traffic during the 10-year period beginning after such date of 
        enactment; and
            (2) assess the adequacy of emergency response capabilities 
        and infrastructure at the Port of Point Spencer, Alaska, to 
        address navigation safety risks and geographic challenges 
        necessary to conduct emergency maritime response operations in 
        the Arctic environment.
    (b) Elements.--The study required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) An analysis of the volume and types of domestic and 
        international commercial vessel traffic through the Bering 
        Strait and the projected growth of such traffic, including a 
        summary of--
                    (A) the sizes, ages, and flag states of vessels; 
                and
                    (B) the oil and product tankers that are--
                            (i) in transit to or from Russia or China; 
                        or
                            (ii) owned or operated by a Russian or 
                        Chinese entity.
            (2) An assessment of the state and adequacy of vessel 
        traffic services and oil spill and emergency response 
        capabilities in the vicinity of the Bering Strait, including 
        its approaches.
            (3) A risk assessment of the projected growth in commercial 
        vessel traffic in the Bering Strait and higher probability of 
        increased frequency in the number of maritime accidents, 
        including spill events, and the potential impacts to the Arctic 
        maritime environment and Native Alaskan village communities in 
        the vicinity of the Bering Strait.
            (4) An evaluation of the ability of the Port of Point 
        Spencer, Alaska, to serve as a port of refuge and as a staging, 
        logistics, and operations center to conduct and support 
        maritime emergency and spill response activities.
            (5) Recommendations for practical actions that can be taken 
        by the Congress, Federal agencies, the State of Alaska, vessel 
        carriers and operators, the marine salvage and emergency 
        response industry, and other relevant stakeholders to mitigate 
        risks, upgrade infrastructure, and improve the posture of the 
        Port of Point Spencer, Alaska, to function as a strategic 
        staging and logistics center for maritime emergency and spill 
        response operations in the Bering Strait region.
    (c) Consultation.--In conducting the study required under 
subsection (a), the Board shall consult with--
            (1) the Department of Transportation;
            (2) the Corps of Engineers;
            (3) the National Transportation Safety Board;
            (4) relevant ministries of the Government of Canada;
            (5) the Port Coordination Council for the Port of Point 
        Spencer; and
            (6) non-government entities with relevant expertise in 
        monitoring and characterizing vessel traffic in the Arctic.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after initiating the study under 
subsection (a), the Board shall submit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a 
report containing the findings and recommendations of the study.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Arctic.--The term ``Arctic'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 112 of the Arctic Research and Policy Act of 
        1984 (15 U.S.C. 4111).
            (2) Port coordination council for the port of point 
        spencer.--The term ``Port Coordination Council for the Port of 
        Point Spencer'' means the Council established under section 541 
        of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-
        120).

SEC. 327. UNDERWATER INSPECTIONS BRIEF.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Commandant, or a designated individual, shall brief the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate on 
the underwater inspection in lieu of drydock program established under 
section 176.615 of title 46, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect 
on the date of enactment of this Act).

SEC. 328. ST. LUCIE RIVER RAILROAD BRIDGE.

    Regarding Docket Number USCG-2022-0222, before adopting a final 
rule, the Commandant shall conduct an independent boat traffic study at 
mile 7.4 of the St. Lucie River.

SEC. 329. RULEMAKING REGARDING PORT ACCESS ROUTES.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating 
shall issue a final rule for the Atlantic Coast Port Route Access Study 
for which an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking titled ``Shipping 
Safety Fairways Along the Atlantic Coast'' was issued on June 19, 2020.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 341. ANCHOR HANDLING ACTIVITIES.

    Section 12111(d) of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A) by inserting ``or other 
                energy production or transmission facility, or vessel 
                engaged in the launch, recovery, or support of 
                commercial space transportation or space exploration 
                activities'' after ``drilling unit''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B) by inserting ``or other 
                energy production or transmission facility, or vessel 
                engaged in the launch, recovery, or support of 
                commercial space transportation or space exploration 
                activities'' after ``drilling unit''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Energy production or transmission facility defined.--
        In this subsection, the term `energy production or transmission 
        facility' means a floating offshore facility that is--
                    ``(A) not a vessel;
                    ``(B) securely and substantially moored to the 
                seabed, but not by driven pile anchors; and
                    ``(C) equipped with wind turbines which are used 
                for the generation and transmission of renewable 
                energy.''.

SEC. 342. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON AUTONOMOUS 
              MARITIME SYSTEMS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 151 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 15110. Establishment of National Advisory Committee on 
              Autonomous Maritime Systems
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established a National Advisory 
Committee on Autonomous Maritime Systems (in this section referred to 
as the `Committee').
    ``(b) Function.--The Committee shall advise the Secretary on 
matters relating to the regulation and use of Autonomous Systems within 
the territorial waters of the United States.
    ``(c) Membership.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Committee shall consist of 9 members 
        appointed by the Secretary in accordance with this section and 
        section 15109.
            ``(2) Expertise.--Each member of the Committee shall have 
        particular expertise, knowledge, and experience in matters 
        relating to the function of the Committee.
            ``(3) Representation.--Each of the following groups shall 
        be represented by at least 1 member on the Committee:
                    ``(A) Marine safety or security entities.
                    ``(B) Vessel design and construction entities.
                    ``(C) Entities engaged in the production or 
                research of unmanned vehicles, including drones, 
                autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicles, or any other 
                product or service integral to the provision, 
                maintenance, or management of such products or 
                services.
                    ``(D) Port districts, authorities, or terminal 
                operators.
                    ``(E) Vessel operators.
                    ``(F) National labor unions representing merchant 
                mariners.
                    ``(G) Maritime pilots.
                    ``(H) Commercial space transportation operators.
                    ``(I) Academic institutions.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--The analysis for chapter 151 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``15110. Establishment of National Advisory Committee on Autonomous 
                            Maritime Systems.''.
    (c) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the department in which the 
Coast Guard is operating shall establish the Committee under section 
15110 of title 46, United States Code (as added by this section).

SEC. 343. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ONBOARD VESSELS.

    Section 70503(a) of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking 
        ``While on board a covered vessel, an individual'' and 
        inserting ``An individual'';
            (2) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
            ``(1) manufacture or distribute, possess with intent to 
        manufacture or distribute, or place or cause to be placed with 
        intent to manufacture or distribute a controlled substance on 
        board a covered vessel;''; and
            (3) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``aboard a covered 
        vessel'' after ``Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and 
        Control Act of 1970 (21 U.S.C. 881(a))''.

SEC. 344. NONOPERATING INDIVIDUAL.

    Section 8313(b) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283) is amended 
by striking ``2025'' and inserting ``2027''.

SEC. 345. INFORMATION ON TYPE APPROVAL CERTIFICATES.

    (a) In General.--Title IX of the Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard 
Authorization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-282) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:

``SEC. 904. INFORMATION ON TYPE APPROVAL CERTIFICATES.

    ``The Commandant of the Coast Guard shall, upon request by any 
State, the District of Columbia, or any territory of the United States, 
provide all data possessed by the Coast Guard pertaining to challenge 
water quality characteristics, challenge water biological organism 
concentrations, post-treatment water quality characteristics, and post-
treatment biological organism concentrations data for a ballast water 
management system with a type approval certificate approved by the 
Coast Guard pursuant to subpart 162.060 of title 46, Code of Federal 
Regulations.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 2 of the 
Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-
282) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 903 the 
following:

``Sec. 904. Information on type approval certificates.''.

SEC. 346. MANNING AND CREWING REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN VESSELS, 
              VEHICLES, AND STRUCTURES.

    (a) Authorization of Limited Exemptions From Manning and Crew 
Requirement.--Chapter 81 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 8109. Exemptions from manning and crew requirements
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may provide an exemption described 
in subsection (b) to the owner or operator of a covered facility if 
each individual who is manning or crewing the covered facility is--
            ``(1) a citizen of the United States;
            ``(2) an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for 
        permanent residence; or
            ``(3) a citizen of the nation under the laws of which the 
        vessel is documented.
    ``(b) Requirements for Eligibility for Exemption.--An exemption 
under this subsection is an exemption from the regulations established 
pursuant to section 302(a)(3) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act 
(43 U.S.C. 1356(a)(3)).
    ``(c) Limitations.--An exemption under this section--
            ``(1) shall provide that the number of individuals manning 
        or crewing the covered facility who are described in paragraphs 
        (2) and (3) of subsection (a) may not exceed two and one-half 
        times the number of individuals required to man or crew the 
        covered facility under the laws of the nation under the laws of 
        which the covered facility is documented; and
            ``(2) shall be effective for not more than 12 months, but 
        may be renewed by application to and approval by the Secretary.
    ``(d) Application.--To be eligible for an exemption or a renewal of 
an exemption under this section, the owner or operator of a covered 
facility shall apply to the Secretary with an application that includes 
a sworn statement by the applicant of all information required for the 
issuance of the exemption.
    ``(e) Revocation.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary--
                    ``(A) may revoke an exemption for a covered 
                facility under this section if the Secretary determines 
                that information provided in the application for the 
                exemption was false or incomplete, or is no longer true 
                or complete; and
                    ``(B) shall immediately revoke such an exemption if 
                the Secretary determines that the covered facility, in 
                the effective period of the exemption, was manned or 
                crewed in a manner not authorized by the exemption.
            ``(2) Notice required.--The Secretary shall provides notice 
        of a determination under subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph 
        (1) to the owner or operator of the covered facility.
    ``(f) Review of Compliance.--The Secretary shall periodically, but 
not less than once annually, inspect each covered facility that 
operates under an exemption under this section to verify the owner or 
operator of the covered facility's compliance with the exemption. 
During an inspection under this subsection, the Secretary shall require 
all crew members serving under the exemption to hold a valid 
transportation security card issued under section 70105.
    ``(g) Penalty.--In addition to revocation under subsection (e), the 
Secretary may impose on the owner or operator of a covered facility a 
civil penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the covered facility--
            ``(1) is manned or crewed in violation of an exemption 
        under this subsection; or
            ``(2) operated under an exemption under this subsection 
        that the Secretary determines was not validly obtained.
    ``(h) Notification of Secretary of State.--The Secretary shall 
notify the Secretary of State of each exemption issued under this 
section, including the effective period of the exemption.
    ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Covered facility.--The term `covered facility' means 
        any vessel, rig, platform, or other vehicle or structure, over 
        50 percent of which is owned by citizens of a foreign nation or 
        with respect to which the citizens of a foreign nation have the 
        right effectively to control, except to the extent and to the 
        degree that the President determines that the government of 
        such foreign nation or any of its political subdivisions has 
        implemented, by statute, regulation, policy, or practice, a 
        national manning requirement for equipment engaged in the 
        exploring for, developing, or producing resources, including 
        non-mineral energy resources in its offshore areas.
            ``(2) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary 
        of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating.''.
    (b) Annual Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary 
        of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall 
        submit to Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
        House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report containing 
        information on each letter of nonapplicability of section 8109 
        of title 46, United States Code, with respect to a covered 
        facility that was issued by the Secretary during the preceding 
        year.
            (2) Contents.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
        include, for each covered facility--
                    (A) the name and International Maritime 
                Organization number;
                    (B) the nation in which the covered facility is 
                documented;
                    (C) the nationality of owner or owners; and
                    (D) for any covered facility that was previously 
                issued a letter of nonapplicability in a prior year, 
                any changes in the information described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C).
    (c) Regulations.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations that 
specify the documentary and other requirements for the issuance of an 
exemption under the amendment made by this section.
    (d) Existing Exemptions.--
            (1) Effect of amendments; termination.--Each exemption 
        under section 30(c)(2) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act 
        (43 U.S.C. 1356(c)(2)) issued before the date of the enactment 
        of this Act--
                    (A) shall not be affected by the amendments made by 
                this section during the 120-day period beginning on the 
                date of the enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) shall not be effective after such period.
            (2) Notification of holders.--Not later than 60 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        notify all persons that hold such an exemption that it will 
        expire as provided in paragraph (1).
    (e) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 81 of the title 
46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``8109. Exemptions from manning and crew requirements.''.

SEC. 347. CLASSIFICATION SOCIETIES.

    Section 3316(d) of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (2)(B)(i) to read as follows:
                            ``(i) the government of the foreign country 
                        in which the foreign society is headquartered--
                                    ``(I) delegates that authority to 
                                the American Bureau of Shipping; or
                                    ``(II) does not delegate that 
                                authority to any classification 
                                society; or''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Clarification on authority.--Nothing in this 
        subsection authorizes the Secretary to make a delegation under 
        paragraph (2) to a classification society from the People's 
        Republic of China.''.

SEC. 348. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH SAFETY ZONES FOR SPECIAL ACTIVITIES IN 
              EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 8343 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 
116-283) is repealed.
    (b) Special Activities in Exclusive Economic Zone.--Subchapter IV 
of chapter 700 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
``Sec. 70037. Special activities in exclusive economic zone
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of the department in which the 
Coast Guard is operating may establish safety zones to address special 
activities in the exclusive economic zone.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Safety zone.--The term `safety zone'--
                    ``(A) means a water area, shore area, or water and 
                shore area to which, for safety or environmental 
                purposes, access is limited to authorized persons, 
                vehicles, or vessels; and
                    ``(B) may be stationary and described by fixed 
                limits or may be described as a zone around a vessel in 
                motion.
            ``(2) Special activities.--The term `special activities' 
        includes--
                    ``(A) space activities, including launch and 
                reentry (as such terms are defined in section 50902 of 
                title 51) carried out by United States citizens; and
                    ``(B) offshore energy development activities, as 
                described in section 8(p)(1)(C) of the Outer 
                Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(p)(1)(C)), 
                on or near fixed platforms (as such term is defined in 
                section 2281(d) of title 18).
            ``(3) United states citizen.--The term `United States 
        citizen' has the meaning given the term `eligible owners' in 
        section 12103 of title 46, United States Code.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 700 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 70036 the following:

``70037. Special activities in exclusive economic zone.''.

SEC. 349. FISHING VESSEL AND FISHERMAN TRAINING SAFETY.

    Section 4502 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (i)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)(ii) by striking ``; 
                        and'' and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                        subparagraph (C); and
                            (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following:
                    ``(B) to conduct safety and prevention training 
                that addresses behavioral and physical health risks, to 
                include substance use disorder and worker fatigue, 
                facing fishing vessel operators and crewmembers; and'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``, in consultation with 
                        and based on criteria established by the 
                        Commandant of the Coast Guard''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``subsection on a 
                        competitive basis'' and inserting the 
                        following: ``subsection--
                    ``(A) on a competitive basis; and
                    ``(B) based on criteria developed in consultation 
                with the Commandant of the Coast Guard.''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (4) by striking ``$3,000,000 for 
                fiscal year 2023'' and inserting ``to the Secretary of 
                Health and Human Services $6,000,000 for each of fiscal 
                years 2025 and 2026''; and
            (2) in subsection (j)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1) by inserting ``, and 
                understanding and mitigating behavioral and physical 
                health risks, to include substance use disorder and 
                worker fatigue, facing members of the commercial 
                fishing industry'' after ``weather detection'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``, in consultation with 
                        and based on criteria established by the 
                        Commandant of the Coast Guard,''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``subsection on a 
                        competitive basis'' and inserting the 
                        following: ``subsection--
                    ``(A) on a competitive basis; and
                    ``(B) based on criteria developed in consultation 
                with the Commandant of the Coast Guard.''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (4) by striking ``$3,000,000 for 
                fiscal year 2023'' and inserting ``to the Secretary of 
                Health and Human Services $6,000,000 for each of fiscal 
                years 2025 and 2026''.

SEC. 350. AUTHORITY OVER DEEPWATER PORT ACT OF 1974.

    (a) In General.--Section 5(a) of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974 (33 
U.S.C. 1504(a)) is amended by striking the first sentence and inserting 
``Notwithstanding section 888(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
(6 U.S.C. 468(b)), the Secretary shall have the sole authority to issue 
regulations to carry out the purposes and provisions of this Act, in 
accordance with the provisions of section 553 of title 5, United States 
Code, without regard to subsection (a) thereof.''.
    (b) Affirming the Authority of Secretary of Transportation Over 
Environmental Reviews.--Section 5(f) of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974 
(33 U.S.C. 1504(f) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(f) Compliance.--Notwithstanding section 888(b) of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 468(b)), the Secretary, in cooperation 
with other involved Federal agencies and departments, shall comply with 
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) 
and act as the lead agency under section 4336a of title 42, United 
States Code, for all applications under this Act. Such compliance shall 
fulfill the requirement of all Federal agencies in carrying out their 
responsibilities under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
pursuant to this chapter.''.
    (c) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall transfer the 
        authorities provided to the Coast Guard in part 148 of title 
        33, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of 
        the enactment of this Act), except as provided in paragraph 
        (2), to the Secretary of Transportation.
            (2) Retention of authority.--The Commandant shall retain 
        responsibility for authorities pertaining to navigational 
        safety.
            (3) Updates to authority.--As soon as practicable after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue such 
        regulations as are necessary to reflect the updates to 
        authorities prescribed by this subsection.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section, or the 
amendments made by this section, may be construed to limit the 
authorities of other governmental agencies previously delegated 
authorities of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974 (33 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.).
    (e) Applications.--Nothing in this section shall apply to any 
application submitted before the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 351. NATIONAL OFFSHORE SAFETY ADVISORY COMMITTEE COMPOSITION.

    Section 15106(c) of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``15 members'' and 
        inserting ``17 members''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(L) 2 members shall represent entities engaged in 
                non-mineral energy activities on the Outer Continental 
                Shelf.''.

SEC. 352. IMPROVING VESSEL TRAFFIC SERVICE MONITORING.

    (a) Proximity of Anchorages to Pipelines.--
            (1) Implementation of restructuring plan.--Not later than 1 
        year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant 
        shall implement the November 2021 proposed plan of the Vessel 
        Traffic Service Los Angeles-Long Beach for restructuring the 
        Federal anchorages in San Pedro Bay described on page 54 of the 
        Report of the National Transportation Safety Board titled 
        ``Anchor Strike of Underwater Pipeline and Eventual Crude Oil 
        Release'' and issued January 2, 2024.
            (2) Study.--The Secretary of the department in which the 
        Coast Guard is operating shall conduct a study to identify any 
        anchorage grounds other than the San Pedro Bay Federal 
        anchorages in which the distance between the center of an 
        approved anchorage ground and a pipeline is less than 1 mile.
            (3) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall 
                submit to the Committee on Transportation and 
                Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
                Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of 
                the Senate a report on the results of the study 
                required under paragraph (2).
                    (B) Contents.--The report under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include--
                            (i) a list of the anchorage grounds 
                        described under paragraph (2);
                            (ii) whether it is possible to move each 
                        such anchorage ground to provide a minimum 
                        distance of 1 mile; and
                            (iii) a recommendation of whether to move 
                        any such anchorage ground and explanation for 
                        the recommendation.
    (b) Proximity to Pipeline Alerts.--
            (1) Audible and visual alarms.--The Commandant shall 
        consult with the providers of vessel monitoring systems to add 
        to the monitoring systems for vessel traffic services audible 
        and visual alarms that alert the watchstander when an anchored 
        vessel is encroaching on a pipeline.
            (2) Notification procedures.--Not later than 1 year after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall develop 
        procedures for all vessel traffic services to notify pipeline 
        and utility operators following potential incursions on 
        submerged pipelines within the vessel traffic service area of 
        responsibility.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Commandant 
        shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the implementation of paragraphs (1) and 
        (2).

SEC. 353. ABANDONED AND DERELICT VESSEL REMOVALS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 47 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the chapter heading by striking ``BARGES'' and 
        inserting ``VESSELS'';
            (2) by inserting before section 4701 the following:

                       ``SUBCHAPTER I--BARGES'';

        and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:

                   ``SUBCHAPTER II--NON-BARGE VESSELS

``Sec. 4710. Definitions
    ``In this subchapter:
            ``(1) Abandon.--The term `abandon' means to moor, strand, 
        wreck, sink, or leave a covered vessel unattended for longer 
        than 45 days.
            ``(2) Covered vessel.--The term `covered vessel' means a 
        vessel that is not a barge to which subchapter I applies.
            ``(3) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian Tribe' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
``Sec. 4711. Abandonment of vessels prohibited
    ``(a) In General.--An owner or operator of a covered vessel may not 
abandon such vessel on the navigable waters of the United States.
    ``(b) Determination of Abandonment.--
            ``(1) Notification.--
                    ``(A) In general.--With respect to a covered vessel 
                that appears to be abandoned, the Commandant of the 
                Coast Guard shall--
                            ``(i) attempt to identify the owner using 
                        the vessel registration number, hull 
                        identification number, or any other information 
                        that can be reasonably inferred or gathered; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) notify such owner--
                                    ``(I) of the penalty described in 
                                subsection (c); and
                                    ``(II) that the vessel will be 
                                removed at the expense of the owner if 
                                the Commandant determines that the 
                                vessel is abandoned and the owner does 
                                not remove or account for the vessel.
                    ``(B) Form.--The Commandant shall provide the 
                notice required under subparagraph (A)--
                            ``(i) if the owner can be identified, via 
                        certified mail or other appropriate forms 
                        determined by the Commandant; or
                            ``(ii) if the owner cannot be identified, 
                        via an announcement in a local publication and 
                        on a website maintained by the Coast Guard.
            ``(2) Determination.--The Commandant shall make a 
        determination not earlier than 45 days after the date on which 
        the Commandant provides the notification required under 
        paragraph (1) of whether a covered vessel described in such 
        paragraph is abandoned.
    ``(c) Penalty.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Commandant may assess a civil 
        penalty of not more than $500 against an owner or operator of a 
        covered vessel determined to be abandoned under subsection (b) 
        for a violation of subsection (a).
            ``(2) Liability in rem.--The owner or operator of a covered 
        vessel shall also be liable in rem for a penalty imposed under 
        paragraph (1).
    ``(d) Vessels Not Abandoned.--The Commandant may not determine that 
a covered vessel is abandoned under this section if--
            ``(1) such vessel is located at a federally approved or 
        State approved mooring area;
            ``(2) such vessel is located on private property with the 
        permission of the owner of such property; or
            ``(3) the owner or operator of such vessel provides a 
        notification to the Commandant that--
                    ``(A) indicates the location of the vessel;
                    ``(B) indicates that the vessel is not abandoned; 
                and
                    ``(C) contains documentation proving that the 
                vessel is allowed to be in such location.
``Sec. 4712. Inventory of abandoned vessels
    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Commandant, in consultation with the 
Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
and relevant State agencies, shall establish and maintain a national 
inventory of covered vessels that are abandoned.
    ``(b) Contents.--The inventory established and maintained under 
subsection (a) shall include data on each vessel, including geographic 
information system data related to the location of each such vessel.
    ``(c) Publication.--The Commandant shall make the inventory 
established under subsection (a) publicly available on a website of the 
Coast Guard.
    ``(d) Reporting of Potentially Abandoned Vessels.--In carrying out 
this section, the Commandant shall develop a process by which--
            ``(1) a State, Indian Tribe, or person may report a covered 
        vessel that may be abandoned to the Commandant for potential 
        inclusion in the inventory established under subsection (a); 
        and
            ``(2) the Commandant shall review any such report and add 
        such vessel to the inventory if the Commandant determines that 
        the reported vessel is abandoned pursuant to section 4711.''.
    (b) Rulemaking.--The Secretary of the department in which the Coast 
Guard is operating, in consultation with the Secretary of the Army, 
acting through the Chief of Engineers, and the Secretary of Commerce, 
acting through the Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere, shall 
issue regulations with respect to the procedures for determining that a 
vessel is abandoned for the purposes of subchapter II of chapter 47 of 
title 46, United States Code (as added by this section).
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Chapter 47 of title 46, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 4701--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by 
                striking ``chapter'' and inserting ``subchapter''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2) by striking ``chapter'' and 
                inserting ``subchapter'';
            (2) in section 4703 by striking ``chapter'' and inserting 
        ``subchapter'';
            (3) in section 4704 by striking ``chapter'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``subchapter''; and
            (4) in section 4705 by striking ``chapter'' and inserting 
        ``subchapter''.
    (d) Clerical Amendments.--The analysis for chapter 47 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting before the item relating to section 4701 
        the following:

                        ``subchapter i--barges'';

        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

                        ``subchapter ii--vessels

``4710. Definitions.
``4711. Abandonment of vessels prohibited.
``4712. Inventory of abandoned vessels.''.

               TITLE IV--OIL POLLUTION INCIDENT LIABILITY

SEC. 401. VESSEL RESPONSE PLANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 311(j)(6) of the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(j)(6)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(6) Equipment requirements, verification, and 
        inspection.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The President may require--
                            ``(i) periodic inspection of containment 
                        booms, skimmers, vessels, and other major 
                        equipment used to remove discharges;
                            ``(ii) periodic inspection of vessels, 
                        salvage and marine firefighting equipment, and 
                        other major equipment used to respond to marine 
                        casualties or prevent discharges;
                            ``(iii) periodic verification of 
                        capabilities to appropriately, and in a timely 
                        manner, respond to a marine casualty, a worst 
                        case discharge, or a substantial threat of a 
                        discharge, including--
                                    ``(I) drills, with or without prior 
                                notice;
                                    ``(II) review of contracts and 
                                relevant third-party agreements;
                                    ``(III) testing of equipment;
                                    ``(IV) review of training; and
                                    ``(V) other evaluations of response 
                                capabilities, as determined appropriate 
                                by the President; and
                            ``(iv) vessels operating on navigable 
                        waters and carrying oil or a hazardous 
                        substance in bulk as cargo, and nontank vessels 
                        carrying oil of any kind as fuel for main 
                        propulsion, to carry appropriate removal 
                        equipment that employs the best technology 
                        economically feasible and that is compatible 
                        with the safe operation of the vessel.
                    ``(B) Marine casualty.--In this paragraph, the term 
                `marine casualty' means a marine casualty that is 
                required to be reported pursuant to section 6101 of 
                title 46, United States Code.''.
    (b) Report to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate a report on the state of marine firefighting 
        authorities, jurisdiction, plan review, and other 
        considerations with respect to vessel fires at waterfront 
        facilities and within the navigable waters of the United States 
        up to 3 nautical miles from the shoreline.
            (2) Contents.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Comptroller General shall--
                    (A) examine factors that affect Federal and non-
                Federal collaboration aimed at reducing vessel and 
                waterfront facility fire risk to local communities;
                    (B) focus on the prevalence and frequency of vessel 
                fires described in paragraph (1); and
                    (C) make recommendations for preparedness, 
                responses to, training for, and other items for 
                consideration.

SEC. 402. USE OF MARINE CASUALTY INVESTIGATIONS.

    Section 6308 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) by striking ``initiated'' and 
        inserting ``conducted''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) For purposes of this section, an administrative proceeding 
conducted by the United States includes proceedings under section 7701 
and claims adjudicated under section 1013 of the Oil Pollution Act of 
1990 (33 U.S.C. 2713).''.

SEC. 403. TIMING OF REVIEW.

    Section 1017 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2717) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Timing of Review.--Before the date of completion of a removal 
action, no person may bring an action under this Act, section 311 of 
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321), or chapter 7 
of title 5, United States Code, challenging any decision relating to 
such removal action that is made by an on-scene coordinator appointed 
under the National Contingency Plan.''.

SEC. 404. ONLINE INCIDENT REPORTING SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the National Response Center shall--
            (1) develop an online capacity through a web-based 
        application to receive a notification of an oil discharge or 
        release of a hazardous substance; and
            (2) allow any such notification to the National Response 
        Center that is required under Federal law or regulation to be 
        made online using the application.
    (b) Use of Application.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
National Response Center may not require the notification of an oil 
discharge or release of a hazardous substance to be made using the 
application developed under such subsection.

   TITLE V--IMPLEMENTATION OF ACCOUNTABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY REVIEW 
                            RECOMMENDATIONS

SEC. 501. IMPLEMENTATION STATUS OF DIRECTED ACTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 51 of title 14, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 5116. Implementation status of directed actions
    ``(a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2025, and not later than 
March 1 of each of the 3 subsequent years thereafter, the Commandant 
shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation of the Senate a report on the status of the 
implementation of each directed action outlined in enclosure 1 of the 
memorandum of the Commandant titled `Commandant's Directed Actions--
Accountability and Transparency', dated November 27, 2023.
    ``(b) Contents.--The report required under section (a) shall 
contain the following:
            ``(1) The status of the implementation of each directed 
        action from enclosure 1 of the memorandum titled `Commandant's 
        Directed Actions--Accountability and Transparency' dated 
        November 27, 2023.
            ``(2) A plan and timeline for the next steps to be taken to 
        complete outstanding directed actions in enclosure 1 of the 
        memorandum titled `Commandant's Directed Actions--
        Accountability and Transparency' dated November 27, 2023, 
        including identifying the individual the Commandant has 
        selected to ensure the successful completion of each directed 
        action.
            ``(3) Metrics to determine the effectiveness of each 
        directed action in such enclosure.
            ``(4) Any additional actions the Commandant is taking to 
        mitigate instances of sexual assault and sexual harassment 
        within the Coast Guard.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 51 of title 14, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``5116. Implementation status of directed actions.''.

SEC. 502. INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF COAST GUARD REFORMS.

    (a) Government Accountability Office Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall report to the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate on the efforts of the Coast Guard to mitigate cases of 
        sexual assault and sexual harassment within the service.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) evaluate--
                            (i) the efforts of the Commandant to 
                        implement the directed actions from enclosure 1 
                        of the memorandum titled ``Commandant's 
                        Directed Actions--Accountability and 
                        Transparency'' dated November 27, 2023;
                            (ii) whether the Commandant met the 
                        reporting requirements under section 5112 of 
                        title 14, United States Code; and
                            (iii) the effectiveness of the actions of 
                        the Coast Guard, including efforts outside of 
                        the actions described in the memorandum titled 
                        ``Commandant's Directed Actions--Accountability 
                        and Transparency'' dated November 27, 2023, to 
                        mitigate instances of sexual assault and sexual 
                        harassment and improve the enforcement relating 
                        to such instances within the Coast Guard, and 
                        how the Coast Guard is overcoming challenges in 
                        implementing such actions;
                    (B) make recommendations to the Commandant for 
                improvements to the efforts of the service to mitigate 
                instances of sexual assault and sexual harassment and 
                improve the enforcement relating to such instances 
                within the Coast Guard; and
                    (C) make recommendations to the Committee on 
                Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
                Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
                and Transportation of the Senate to mitigate instances 
                of sexual assault and sexual harassment in the Coast 
                Guard and improve the enforcement relating to such 
                instances within the Coast Guard, including proposed 
                changes to any legislative authorities.
    (b) Report by Commandant.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
which the Comptroller General completes all actions under subsection 
(a), the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report that 
includes the following:
            (1) A plan for Coast Guard implementation, including 
        interim milestones and timeframes, of any recommendation made 
        by the Comptroller General under subsection (a)(2)(B) with 
        which the Commandant concurs.
            (2) With respect to any recommendation made under 
        subsection (a)(2)(B) with which the Commandant does not concur, 
        an explanation of the reasons why the Commandant does not 
        concur.

SEC. 503. REQUIREMENT TO MAINTAIN CERTAIN RECORDS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 9 of title 14, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 955. Requirement to maintain certain records
    ``(a) In General.--The Commandant shall maintain all work product 
related to final action documenting a disposition decision on an 
investigation by the Coast Guard Investigative Service or other law 
enforcement entity investigating a Coast Guard member accused of 
misconduct for not less than 7 years from date of the disposition 
decision.
    ``(b) Final Action Memo.--Upon a final action documenting a 
disposition decision described in subsection (a), the convening 
authority or final decision making authority, as applicable, shall sign 
a final action memo that includes the following:
            ``(1) A reference section listing the materials reviewed in 
        making a disposition decision.
            ``(2) The Coast Guard Investigative Service report of 
        investigation listed as either a reference or an enclosure.
            ``(3) The prosecution memo, signed by the convening 
        authority or the final decision making authority, listed and 
        included as an enclosure.
            ``(4) The completed Coast Guard Investigative Service 
        report of adjudication listed and included as an enclosure.
            ``(5) The disposition decision.
    ``(c) Work Product.--In this section, the term `work product' 
includes--
            ``(1) a prosecution memo;
            ``(2) emails, notes, and other correspondence related to a 
        disposition decision; and
            ``(3) the content described in paragraphs (1) through (5) 
        of subsection (b).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 9 of title 14, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``955. Requirement to maintain certain records.''.

SEC. 504. STUDY ON COAST GUARD ACADEMY OVERSIGHT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Commandant, in consultation with relevant 
stakeholders, shall conduct a study on the governance of the Coast 
Guard Academy, including examining the roles, responsibilities, 
authorities, advisory functions, and membership qualifications and 
expertise of the Board of Visitors and Board of Trustees of such 
Academy.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a 
written report that contains--
            (1) the results of the study required under subsection (a); 
        and
            (2) recommendations to improve governance at the Coast 
        Guard Academy.

SEC. 505. PROVIDING FOR THE TRANSFER OF A CADET WHO IS THE VICTIM OF A 
              SEXUAL ASSAULT OR RELATED OFFENSE.

    Section 1902 of title 14, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(f) Consideration of Request for Transfer of Cadet Who Is the 
Victim of Sexual Assault or Related Offense.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Commandant shall provide for timely 
        consideration of and action on a request submitted by a cadet 
        appointed to the Coast Guard Academy who is the victim of an 
        alleged sexual assault or other offense covered by section 920, 
        920c, or 930 of title 10 (article 120, 120c, or 130 of the 
        Uniform Code of Military Justice) for transfer to a Service 
        Academy or to enroll in a Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
        Corps program affiliated with another institution of higher 
        education.
            ``(2) Rulemaking.--The Commandant shall prescribe 
        regulations to carry out this subsection that--
                    ``(A) ensure that any cadet who has been appointed 
                to the Coast Guard Academy is informed of the right to 
                request a transfer pursuant to this subsection, and 
                that any formal request submitted by a cadet is 
                processed as expeditiously as practicable for review 
                and action by the Superintendent;
                    ``(B) direct the Superintendent of the Coast Guard 
                Academy, in coordination with the Superintendent of the 
                Service Academy to which the cadet requests to 
                transfer--
                            ``(i) to act on a request for transfer 
                        under this subsection not later than 72 hours 
                        after receiving the formal request from the 
                        cadet;
                            ``(ii) to approve such request for transfer 
                        unless there are exceptional circumstances that 
                        require denial of the request; and
                            ``(iii) upon approval of such request, to 
                        take all necessary and appropriate action to 
                        effectuate the transfer of the cadet to the 
                        Service Academy concerned as expeditiously as 
                        possible; and
                    ``(C) direct the Superintendent of the Coast Guard 
                Academy, in coordination with the Secretary of the 
                military department that sponsors the Senior Reserve 
                Officers' Training Corps program at the institution of 
                higher education to which the cadet requests to 
                transfer--
                            ``(i) to act on a request for transfer 
                        under this subsection not later than 72 hours 
                        after receiving the formal request from the 
                        cadet;
                            ``(ii) subject to the cadet's acceptance 
                        for admission to the institution of higher 
                        education to which the cadet wishes to 
                        transfer, to approve such request for transfer 
                        unless there are exceptional circumstances that 
                        require denial of the request; and
                            ``(iii) to take all necessary and 
                        appropriate action to effectuate the cadet's 
                        enrollment in the institution of higher 
                        education to which the cadet wishes to transfer 
                        and to process the cadet for participation in 
                        the relevant Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
                        Corps program as expeditiously as possible.
            ``(3) Denial of transfer request.--If the Superintendent of 
        the Coast Guard Academy denies a request for transfer under 
        this subsection, the cadet may request review of the denial by 
        the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is 
        operating, who shall act on such request not later than 72 
        hours after receipt of the formal request for review.
            ``(4) Confidentiality of records.--The Secretary of the 
        Department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall ensure 
        that all records of any request, determination, transfer, or 
        other action under this subsection remain confidential, 
        consistent with applicable law and regulation.
            ``(5) Appointment to service academy.--A cadet who 
        transfers under this subsection may retain the cadet's 
        appointment to the Coast Guard Academy or may be appointed to 
        the Service Academy to which the cadet transfers without regard 
        to the limitations and requirements described in sections 7442, 
        8454, and 9442 of title 10.
            ``(6) Appointment upon graduation.--
                    ``(A) Preference.--A cadet who transfers under this 
                subsection to a Service Academy, is entitled, before 
                graduating from such Academy, to state the preference 
                of the cadet for appointment, upon graduation, as a 
                commissioned officer in the Coast Guard.
                    ``(B) Manner of appointment.--Upon graduation, a 
                cadet described in subparagraph (A) is entitled to be 
                accepted for appointment as a permanent commissioned 
                officer in the Regular Coast Guard in the same manner 
                as graduates of the Coast Guard Academy as described in 
                section 2101.
            ``(7) Commission into coast guard.--A cadet who transfers 
        under this subsection to a Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
        Corps program affiliated with another institution of higher 
        education is entitled upon graduation from the Senior Reserve 
        Officers' Training program to commission into the Coast Guard 
        as described in section 3738a.
            ``(8) Service academy defined.--In this subsection, the 
        term `Service Academy' has the meaning given such term in 
        section 347 of title 10.''.

SEC. 506. DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS WITH PARTICULAR EXPERTISE IN MILITARY 
              JUSTICE OR HEALTHCARE.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 21 of title 14, United 
States Code is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 2132. Designation of officers with particular expertise in 
              military justice or healthcare
    ``(a) Secretary Designation.--The Secretary may designate a limited 
number of officers of the Coast Guard as having particular expertise 
in--
            ``(1) military justice; or
            ``(2) healthcare.
    ``(b) Promotion and Grade.--An individual designated under this 
section--
            ``(1) shall not be included on the active duty promotion 
        list;
            ``(2) shall be promoted under section 2126; and
            ``(3) may not be promoted to a grade higher than 
        captain.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 21 of title 14, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2131 the following:

``2132. Designation of officers with particular expertise in military 
                            justice or healthcare.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 2102(a) of title 14, United States Code, is 
        amended, in the second sentence, by striking ``and officers of 
        the permanent commissioned teaching staff of the Coast Guard 
        Academy'' and inserting ``officers of the permanent 
        commissioned teaching staff of the Coast Guard Academy, and 
        officers designated by the Secretary pursuant to section 
        2132''.
            (2) Subsection (e) of section 2103 of title 14, United 
        States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Secretary To Prescribe Numbers for Certain Officers.--The 
Secretary shall prescribe the number of officers authorized to be 
serving on active duty in each grade of--
            ``(1) the permanent commissioned teaching staff of the 
        Coast Guard Academy;
            ``(2) the officers designated by the Secretary pursuant to 
        section 2132; and
            ``(3) the officers of the Reserve serving in connection 
        with organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or 
        training the reserve components.''.
            (3) Section 2126 of title 14, United States Code, is 
        amended, in the second sentence, by inserting ``and as to 
        officers designated by the Secretary pursuant to section 2132'' 
        after ``reserve components''.
            (4) Section 3736(a) of title 14, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in the first sentence by striking ``promotion 
                list and the'' and inserting ``promotion list, officers 
                designated by the Secretary pursuant to section 2132, 
                and the officers on the''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence by striking ``promotion 
                list or the'' and inserting ``promotion list, officers 
                designated by the Secretary pursuant to section 2132, 
                or the officers on the''.

SEC. 507. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PERSONNEL OF COAST GUARD.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 25 of title 14, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 2517. Direct hire authority for certain personnel of Coast Guard
    ``(a) In General.--The Commandant may appoint, without regard to 
the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5 (other than 
section 3303 and 3328 of such chapter), qualified candidates to any 
non-clinical specialist intended to engage in the integrated primary 
prevention of harmful behaviors, including suicide, sexual assault, 
harassment, domestic abuse, and child abuse and qualified candidates to 
any criminal investigative law enforcement position of the Coast Guard 
Criminal Investigative Service intended to engage in the primary 
response to such harmful behaviors.
    ``(b) Sunset.--Effective on September 30, 2034, the authority 
provided under subsection (a) shall cease.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 25 of title 14, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item related to 
section 2516 the following:

``2517. Direct hire authority for certain personnel of United States 
                            Coast Guard.''.

SEC. 508. SAFE-TO-REPORT POLICY FOR COAST GUARD.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 19 of title 14, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 1907. Safe-to-report policy for Coast Guard
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of the department in which the 
Coast Guard is operating shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of 
the military departments, issue such regulations as are necessary to 
establish the safe-to-report policy described in subsection (b) that 
applies with respect to all members of the Coast Guard (including 
members of the reserve and auxiliary components of the Coast Guard) and 
cadets at the Coast Guard Academy.
    ``(b) Safe-to-Report Policy.--The safe-to-report policy described 
in this subsection is a policy that prescribes the handling of minor 
collateral misconduct involving a member of the Coast Guard who is the 
alleged victim or reporting witness of a sexual assault.
    ``(c) Mitigating and Aggravating Circumstances.--In issuing 
regulations under subsection (a), the Secretary shall specify 
mitigating circumstances that decrease the gravity of minor collateral 
misconduct or the impact of such misconduct on good order and 
discipline and aggravating circumstances that increase the gravity of 
minor collateral misconduct or the impact of such misconduct on good 
order and discipline for purposes of the safe-to-report policy.
    ``(d) Tracking of Collateral Misconduct Incidents.--In conjunction 
with the issuance of regulations under subsection (a), Secretary shall 
develop and implement a process to anonymously track incidents of minor 
collateral misconduct that are subject to the safe-to-report policy 
established under such regulations.
    ``(e) Minor Collateral Misconduct Defined.--In this section, the 
term `minor collateral misconduct' means any minor misconduct that is 
punishable under chapter 47 of title 10 that--
            ``(1) is committed close in time to or during a sexual 
        assault and directly related to the incident that formed the 
        basis of the sexual assault allegation;
            ``(2) is discovered as a direct result of the report of 
        sexual assault or the ensuing investigation into such sexual 
        assault; and
            ``(3) does not involve aggravating circumstances (as 
        specified in the regulations issued under subsection (a)) that 
        increase the gravity of the minor misconduct or the impact of 
        such misconduct on good order and discipline.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 19 of title 14, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 1906 the following:

``1907. Safe-to-report policy for Coast Guard.''.

SEC. 509. MODIFICATION OF DELIVERY DATE OF COAST GUARD SEXUAL ASSAULT 
              REPORT.

    Section 5112(a) of title 14, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``January 15'' and inserting ``March 1''.

SEC. 510. HIGHER-LEVEL REVIEW OF BOARD OF DETERMINATION DECISIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2158 of title 14, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the first sentence by striking ``The Secretary'' and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Higher-Level Review of Sexual Assault Cases.--
            ``(1) In general.--If a board convened under this section 
        determines that the officer should be retained when the 
        officer's record indicates that the officer has committed a 
        sexual assault offense, the board shall forward the record of 
        the proceedings and recommendation of the board for higher-
        level review, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the 
        Secretary.
            ``(2) Authority.--The official exercising higher-level 
        review shall have authority to forward the case for 
        consideration by a Board of Inquiry in accordance with section 
        2159.
    ``(c) Sexual Assault Offense Defined.--In this section, the term 
`sexual assault offense' means a violation of section 920 or 920b of 
title 10, United States Code (article 120 or 120b of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice) or attempt to commit an offense specified under 
section 920 or 920b as punishable under section 880 of such title 
(article 80 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).''.

SEC. 511. REVIEW OF DISCHARGE OR DISMISSAL.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 25 of title 14, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 2517. Review of discharge or dismissal
    ``(a) Downgrade.--
            ``(1) In general.--In addition to the requirements of 
        section 1553 of title 10, a board of review for a former member 
        of the Coast Guard established pursuant to such section may, 
        upon a motion of the board and subject to review by the 
        Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is 
        operating, downgrade an honorable discharge or dismissal to a 
        general (under honorable conditions) discharge or dismissal 
        upon a finding that a former member of the Coast Guard, while 
        serving on active duty as a member of the armed forces, 
        committed sexual assault or sexual harassment in violation of 
        section 920, 920b, or 934 of this title (article 120, 120b, or 
        134 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
            ``(2) Evidence.--Any downgrade under paragraph (1) shall be 
        supported by clear and convincing evidence.
            ``(3) Limitation.--The review board under paragraph (1) may 
        not downgrade a discharge or dismissal of a former member of 
        the Coast Guard if the same action described in paragraph (1) 
        was considered prior to separation from active duty by an 
        administrative board in determining the characterization of 
        discharge as otherwise provided by law and in accordance with 
        regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Department in 
        which the Coast Guard is operating.
    ``(b) Procedural Rights.--
            ``(1) In general.--A review by a board established under 
        section 1553 of title 10 shall be based on the records of the 
        armed forces concerned and such other evidence as may be 
        presented to the board.
            ``(2) Evidence by witness.--A witness may present evidence 
        to the board in person or by affidavit.
            ``(3) Appearance before board.--A person who requests a 
        review under this section may appear before the board in person 
        or by counsel or an accredited representative of an 
        organization recognized by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        under chapter 59 of title 38.
            ``(4) Notification.--A former member of the Coast Guard who 
        is subject to a downgrade in discharge characterization review 
        under subsection (b)(3) shall be notified in writing of such 
        proceedings, afforded the right to obtain copies of records and 
        documents relevant to the proceedings, and the right to appear 
        before the board in person or by counsel or an accredited 
        representative of an organization recognized by the Secretary 
        of Veterans Affairs under chapter 59 of title 38.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 25 of title 14, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2516 the following:

``2517. Review of discharge or dismissal.''.

                          TITLE VI--AMENDMENTS

SEC. 601. AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Prohibition on Entry and Operation.--Section 70022(b)(1) of 
title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking ``Federal 
Register'' and inserting ``the Federal Register''.
    (b) Port, Harbor, and Coastal Facility Security.--Section 70116(b) 
of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``terrorism cyber'' and 
        inserting ``terrorism, cyber''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2) by inserting a comma after ``acts of 
        terrorism''.
    (c) Enforcement by State and Local Officers.--Section 70118(a) of 
title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``section 1 of title II of the Act of June 
        15, 1917 (chapter 30; 50 U.S.C. 191)'' and inserting ``section 
        70051''; and
            (2) by striking ``section 7(b) of the Ports and Waterways 
        Safety Act (33 U.S.C. 1226(b))'' and inserting ``section 
        70116(b)''.
    (d) Chapter 701 Definitions.--Section 70131(2) of title 46, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``section 1 of title II of the Act of June 
        15, 1917 (50 U.S.C. 191)'' and inserting ``section 70051''; and
            (2) by striking ``section 7(b) of the Ports and Waterways 
        Safety Act (33 U.S.C. 1226(b))'' and inserting ``section 
        70116(b)''.
    (e) Notice of Arrival Requirements for Vessels on the Outer 
Continental Shelf.--
            (1) Preparatory conforming amendment.--Section 70001 of 
        title 46, United States Code, is amended by redesignating 
        subsections (l) and (m) as subsections (m) and (n), 
        respectively.
            (2) Transfer of provision.--Section 704 of the Coast Guard 
        and Maritime Transportation Act 2012 (Public Law 112-213; 46 
        U.S.C. 70001 note) is--
                    (A) amended by striking ``of title 46, United 
                States Code,'';
                    (B) transferred to appear after 70001(k) of title 
                46, United States Code; and
                    (C) redesignated as subsection (l).
    (f) Title 46.--Title 46, United States Code, is amended as follows:
            (1) Section 2101(2) is amended by striking ``section 1'' 
        and inserting ``section 101''.
            (2) Section 2116(b)(1)(D) is amended by striking ``section 
        93(c)'' and inserting ``section 504(c)''.
            (3) In the analysis for subtitle VII by striking the period 
        after ``70001'' in the item relating to chapter 700.
            (4) In the analysis for chapter 700 by striking the item 
        relating to section 70006 and inserting the following:

``70006. Establishment by Secretary of the department in which the 
                            Coast Guard is operating of anchorage 
                            grounds and regulations generally.''.
            (5) In the heading for subchapter IV in the analysis for 
        chapter 700 by inserting a comma after ``DEFINITIONS''.
            (6) In the heading for subchapter VI in the analysis for 
        chapter 700 by striking ``OF THE UNITED''and inserting ``OF 
        UNITED''.
            (7) Section 70052(e)(1) is amended by striking ``section 
        4197 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (46 U.S.C. 
        App. 91)'' and inserting ``section 60105''.
    (g) Oil Pollution Act of 1990.--The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 
U.S.C. 2701 et seq.) is amended as follows:
            (1) Section 1001(32)(G) (33 U.S.C. 2701(32)(G)) is amended 
        by striking ``pipeline'' and all that follows through 
        ``offshore facility'' and inserting ``pipeline, offshore 
        facility''.
            (2) Section 1016 (33 U.S.C. 2716) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsections (e) through (i) as 
                subsections (d) through (h), respectively; and
                    (B) in subsection (e)(1)(B), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``subsection (e)'' and 
                inserting ``subsection (d)''.
            (3) Section 1012(b)(2) (33 U.S.C. 2712(b)(2)) is amended by 
        striking ``section 1016(f)(1)'' and inserting ``section 
        1016(e)(1)''.
            (4) Section 1005(b)(5)(B) (33 U.S.C. 2705(b)(5)(B)) is 
        amended by striking ``section 1016(g)'' and inserting ``section 
        1016(f)''.
            (5) Section 1018(c) (33 U.S.C. 2718(c)) is amended by 
        striking ``the Act of March 3, 1851 (46 U.S.C. 183 et seq.)'' 
        and inserting ``chapter 305 of title 46, United States Code''.
            (6) Section 7001(h)(1) (33 U.S.C. 2761(h)(1)) is amended by 
        striking ``subsection (c)(4)'' and inserting ``subsection 
        (e)(4)''.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
