<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4332 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






118th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4332

To redesignate land within certain wilderness study areas in the State 
                  of Wyoming, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 23, 2023

 Ms. Hageman introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To redesignate land within certain wilderness study areas in the State 
                  of Wyoming, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Wyoming Public Lands Initiative Act 
of 2023''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Bureau.--The term ``Bureau'' means the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (2) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of the Interior.
            (3) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Bureau of Land Management.
            (4) Emergency.--The term ``emergency'' means a situation 
        that requires immediate action because of an imminent danger--
                    (A) to the health or safety of people; or
                    (B) of harm to property.
            (5) Range improvement.--The term ``range improvement'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Public 
        Rangelands Improvement Act of 1978 (43 U.S.C. 1902).
            (6) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Wyoming.

SEC. 3. DESIGNATION OF LAND IN CARBON COUNTY, WYOMING.

    (a) Designation of Wilderness Areas.--
            (1) Encampment river canyon wilderness.--
                    (A) Designation.--In accordance with the Wilderness 
                Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the land within the boundaries of the 
                Encampment River Canyon Wilderness Study Area is 
                designated as wilderness and as a component of the 
                National Wilderness Preservation System, to be known as 
                the ``Encampment River Canyon Wilderness'' (referred to 
                in this paragraph as the ``Wilderness'').
                    (B) Excluded land.--
                            (i) Definition of water valley road.--In 
                        this subparagraph, the term ``Water Valley 
                        Road'' means the road in Carbon County, 
                        Wyoming, that is 50 feet wide and 17,340 feet 
                        long, consisting of approximately 19.904 acres 
                        of land in T. 14 N., R. 84 W., including--
                                    (I) in sec. 22, land in--
                                            (aa) the NE\1/4\SW\1/4\; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) the S\1/2\SW\1/4\;
                                    (II) in sec. 27, land in lots 4, 6, 
                                and 7 of the NW\1/4\SW\1/4\;
                                    (III) in sec. 28, land in lot 1 of 
                                the NE\1/4\SE\1/4\;
                                    (IV) in sec. 34, land in--
                                            (aa) the S\1/2\NE\1/4\; and
                                            (bb) the E\1/2\NW\1/4\; and
                                    (V) in sec. 35, land in--
                                            (aa) the N\1/2\SW\1/4\;
                                            (bb) the NW\1/4\SE\1/4\; 
                                        and
                                            (cc) the S\1/2\SE\1/4\.
                            (ii) Land excluded from the wilderness.--
                        The following land is not included in the 
                        Wilderness:
                                    (I) Any land in the NW\1/4\NW\1/
                                4\NW\1/4\ sec. 24, T. 14 N., R. 84 W.
                                    (II) Any land within 50 feet of the 
                                centerline of--
                                            (aa) County Road 353; or
                                            (bb) Water Valley Road.
                    (C) Maintenance of roads.--Necessary maintenance or 
                repairs to County Road 353 or Water Valley Road (as 
                defined in subparagraph (B)) shall be permitted after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, consistent with the 
                requirements of this subsection.
                    (D) Wildfire suppression.--
                            (i) In general.--Not later than 180 days 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                        Director shall establish a fire suppression 
                        plan for the protection of--
                                    (I) any individual or structure 
                                adjacent to the Wilderness; and
                                    (II) the population centers of--
                                            (aa) Encampment, Wyoming; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) Riverside, Wyoming.
                            (ii) Coordination.--In carrying out clause 
                        (i), the Director shall coordinate with--
                                    (I) the Wyoming State Forestry 
                                Division; and
                                    (II) Carbon County, Wyoming.
            (2) Prospect mountain wilderness.--
                    (A) Designation.--In accordance with the Wilderness 
                Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the land within the boundaries of the 
                Prospect Mountain Wilderness Study Area is designated 
                as wilderness and as a component of the National 
                Wilderness Preservation System, to be known as the 
                ``Prospect Mountain Wilderness'' (referred to in this 
                paragraph as the ``Wilderness'').
                    (B) Excluded land.--Any land within 100 feet of the 
                centerline of Prospect Road is not included in the 
                Wilderness.
                    (C) Maintenance of prospect road.--Necessary 
                maintenance or repairs to Prospect Road shall be 
                permitted after the date of enactment of this Act, 
                consistent with the requirements of this subsection.
            (3) Management of wilderness areas.--
                    (A) Administration.--Subject to valid existing 
                rights, the wilderness areas designated in paragraphs 
                (1) and (2) (referred to in this paragraph as the 
                ``Wilderness Areas'') shall be administered by the 
                Director in accordance with--
                            (i) this paragraph; and
                            (ii) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                        seq.), except that any reference in that Act to 
                        the effective date of that Act shall be 
                        considered to be a reference to the date of 
                        enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the 
                Wilderness Areas, where established before the date of 
                enactment of this Act, shall be allowed to continue in 
                accordance with--
                            (i) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act 
                        (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4));
                            (ii) the guidelines set forth in the report 
                        of the Committee on Interior and Insular 
                        Affairs of the House of Representatives 
                        accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H. 
                        Rept. 96-617); and
                            (iii) the guidelines set forth in appendix 
                        A of the Report of the Committee on Interior 
                        and Insular Affairs to accompany H.R. 2570 of 
                        the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101-405).
                    (C) Review of policies, practices, and 
                regulations.--
                            (i) In general.--To ensure that the 
                        policies, practices, and regulations of the 
                        Department conform to and implement the intent 
                        of Congress regarding forest fires and the 
                        outbreak of disease or insects, not later than 
                        180 days after the date of enactment of this 
                        Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall review 
                        all policies, practices, and regulations of the 
                        Department applicable to the Wilderness Areas 
                        that pertain to--
                                    (I) wildland fires, including the 
                                use of modern methods of fire 
                                suppression (including mechanical 
                                activity, as necessary); or
                                    (II) the outbreak of disease or 
                                insect populations.
                            (ii) Revisions.--On completion of the 
                        review under clause (i), the Secretary of the 
                        Interior shall revise or develop policies, 
                        practices, and regulations for the Wilderness 
                        Areas--
                                    (I) to ensure the timely and 
                                efficient control of fires, diseases, 
                                and insects in the Wilderness Areas, in 
                                accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the 
                                Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)); 
                                and
                                    (II) to provide, to the maximum 
                                extent practicable, adequate protection 
                                from forest fires, disease outbreaks, 
                                and insect infestations to any Federal, 
                                State, or private land adjacent to the 
                                Wilderness Areas.
    (b) Designation of Bennett Mountains Special Management Area.--
            (1) Designation.--The land within the Bennett Mountains 
        Wilderness Study Area is designated as the ``Bennett Mountains 
        Special Management Area'' (referred to in this subsection as 
        the ``Special Management Area'').
            (2) Administration.--The Special Management Area shall be 
        administered by the Director.
            (3) Roads; motorized vehicles.--
                    (A) Roads.--
                            (i) Prohibition on new permanent roads.--
                        The construction of new permanent roads in the 
                        Special Management Area shall not be allowed.
                            (ii) Temporary roads.--The Director may 
                        authorize the construction of new temporary 
                        roads to respond to an emergency.
                    (B) Motorized vehicles.--Except as needed for 
                administrative purposes, to respond to an emergency, or 
                to develop range improvements, the use of motorized and 
                mechanized vehicles in the Special Management Area 
                shall be allowed only on existing roads and trails 
                designated for the use of motorized or mechanized 
                vehicles by the travel management plan established 
                under subparagraph (C).
                    (C) Travel management plan.--Not later than 2 years 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director 
                shall establish a travel management plan for the 
                Special Management Area.
            (4) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the Special 
        Management Area shall be administered--
                    (A) as a nondiscretionary use; and
                    (B) in accordance with the laws generally 
                applicable to land under the jurisdiction of the 
                Bureau, including--
                            (i) the Act of June 28, 1934 (commonly 
                        known as the ``Taylor Grazing Act'') (48 Stat. 
                        1269, chapter 865; 43 U.S.C. 315 et seq.);
                            (ii) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                            (iii) the Public Rangelands Improvement Act 
                        of 1978 (43 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.).
            (5) Fire management and suppression.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director shall carry out fire 
                management and suppression activities in the Special 
                Management Area in accordance with the laws generally 
                applicable to land under the jurisdiction of the 
                Bureau.
                    (B) Review of policies, practices, and 
                regulations.--
                            (i) In general.--To ensure that the 
                        policies, practices, and regulations of the 
                        Bureau conform to and implement the intent of 
                        Congress regarding forest fires, not later than 
                        180 days after the date of enactment of this 
                        Act, the Director shall review all policies, 
                        practices, and regulations of the Bureau 
                        applicable to the Special Management Area that 
                        pertain to wildland fires, including the use of 
                        modern methods of fire suppression.
                            (ii) Revision.--On completion of the review 
                        under clause (i), the Director shall revise or 
                        develop policies, practices, and regulations 
                        for the Special Management Area--
                                    (I) to ensure the timely and 
                                efficient control of fires in the 
                                Special Management Area; and
                                    (II) to provide, to the maximum 
                                extent practicable, adequate protection 
                                from forest fires to any Federal, 
                                State, or private land adjacent to the 
                                Special Management Area.
            (6) Timber harvesting.--Commercial timber harvesting shall 
        not be allowed in the Special Management Area.
            (7) Withdrawal.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), subject to valid rights in existence on the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the land within the 
                boundaries of the Special Management Area is withdrawn 
                from--
                            (i) location, entry, and patent under the 
                        mining laws; and
                            (ii) disposition under all laws relating to 
                        mineral and geothermal leasing.
                    (B) Exception.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
                lease oil and gas resources within the boundaries of 
                the Special Management Area if--
                            (i) the lease may only be accessed by 
                        directional drilling from a lease that is 
                        outside of the Special Management Area; and
                            (ii) the lease prohibits, without exception 
                        or waiver, surface occupancy and surface 
                        disturbance within the Special Management Area 
                        for any activities, including activities 
                        related to exploration, development, or 
                        production.
    (c) Designation of Black Cat Special Management Area.--
            (1) Designation.--The land described in paragraph (2) is 
        designated as the ``Black Cat Special Management Area'' 
        (referred to in this subsection as the ``Special Management 
        Area'').
            (2) Included land.--The Special Management Area shall 
        consist of--
                    (A) the Federal land in T. 14 N., R. 81 W., sec. 
                35, that is managed by the Forest Service; and
                    (B) the portions of T. 14 N., R. 81 W., secs. 26, 
                35, and 36, that are south and west of the North Platte 
                River.
            (3) Administration.--The Special Management Area shall be 
        administered by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (4) Roads; motorized vehicles.--
                    (A) Roads.--
                            (i) Prohibition on new permanent roads.--
                        The construction of new permanent roads in the 
                        Special Management Area shall not be allowed.
                            (ii) Temporary roads.--The Secretary of 
                        Agriculture may authorize the construction of 
                        new temporary roads to respond to an emergency.
                    (B) Motorized vehicles.--Except as needed for 
                administrative purposes, to respond to an emergency, or 
                to develop or maintain range improvements, the 
                Secretary of Agriculture shall prohibit the use of 
                motorized and mechanized vehicles in the Special 
                Management Area.
            (5) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the Special 
        Management Areas shall be administered--
                    (A) as a nondiscretionary use; and
                    (B) in accordance with the laws generally 
                applicable to the National Forest System, including--
                            (i) the Multiple-Use Sustained-Yield Act of 
                        1960 (16 U.S.C. 528 et seq.);
                            (ii) the Act of June 28, 1934 (commonly 
                        known as the ``Taylor Grazing Act'') (48 Stat. 
                        1269, chapter 865; 43 U.S.C. 315 et seq.); and
                            (iii) the Public Rangelands Improvement Act 
                        of 1978 (43 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.).
            (6) Fire management and suppression.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
                carry out fire management and suppression activities in 
                the Special Management Area--
                            (i) in accordance with the laws generally 
                        applicable to--
                                    (I) the National Forest System; and
                                    (II) the land within the boundaries 
                                of the Special Management Area; and
                            (ii)(I) if a land management plan has been 
                        established for the Special Management Area, in 
                        accordance with that land management plan; or
                            (II) if a land management plan has not been 
                        established for the Special Management Area, in 
                        a manner consistent with land that is similarly 
                        situated to the land within the boundaries of 
                        the Special Management Area, as determined by 
                        the Secretary of Agriculture.
                    (B) Review of policies, practices, and 
                regulations.--
                            (i) In general.--To ensure that the 
                        policies, practices, and regulations of the 
                        Department of Agriculture conform to and 
                        implement the intent of Congress regarding 
                        forest fires, not later than 180 days after the 
                        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                        Agriculture shall review all policies, 
                        practices, and regulations of the Department of 
                        Agriculture applicable to the Special 
                        Management Area that pertain to forest fires, 
                        including the use of modern methods of fire 
                        suppression.
                            (ii) Revision.--On completion of the review 
                        under clause (i), the Secretary of Agriculture 
                        shall revise or develop policies, practices, 
                        and regulations for the Special Management 
                        Area--
                                    (I) to ensure the timely and 
                                efficient control of fires in the 
                                Special Management Area; and
                                    (II) to provide, to the maximum 
                                extent practicable, adequate protection 
                                from forest fires to any Federal, 
                                State, or private land adjacent to the 
                                Special Management Area.
            (7) Timber harvesting.--Commercial timber harvesting shall 
        not be allowed in the Special Management Area.
            (8) Withdrawal.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), subject to valid rights in existence on the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the land within the 
                boundaries of the Special Management Area is withdrawn 
                from--
                            (i) location, entry, and patent under the 
                        mining laws; and
                            (ii) disposition under all laws relating to 
                        mineral and geothermal leasing.
                    (B) Exception.--The Secretary of the Interior may, 
                with the approval of the Secretary of Agriculture, 
                lease oil and gas resources within the boundaries of 
                the Special Management Area if--
                            (i) the lease may only be accessed by 
                        directional drilling from a lease that is 
                        outside of the Special Management Area; and
                            (ii) the lease prohibits, without exception 
                        or waiver, surface occupancy and surface 
                        disturbance within the Special Management Area 
                        for any activities, including activities 
                        related to exploration, development, or 
                        production.
    (d) Release of Wilderness Study Areas.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of 
        section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
        1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), any portion of a wilderness study 
        area described in paragraph (2) that is not designated as 
        wilderness by this section has been adequately studied for 
        wilderness designation.
            (2) Description of land.--The wilderness study areas 
        referred to in paragraphs (1) and (3) are--
                    (A) the Encampment River Canyon Wilderness Study 
                Area;
                    (B) the Prospect Mountain Wilderness Study Area; 
                and
                    (C) the Bennett Mountains Wilderness Study Area.
            (3) Release.--Any portion of a wilderness study area 
        described in paragraph (2) that is not designated as wilderness 
        by this section is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the 
        Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1782(c)).
            (4) Management of released land.--
                    (A) Encampment river canyon wilderness study 
                area.--The Director shall manage the portion of the 
                Encampment River Canyon Wilderness Study Area released 
                under paragraph (3) in a manner consistent with a 
                resource management plan that is applicable to any land 
                that--
                            (i) is adjacent to that released portion; 
                        and
                            (ii) is not included in the Encampment 
                        River Canyon Wilderness designated under 
                        subsection (a)(1).
                    (B) Prospect mountain wilderness study area.--The 
                portion of the Prospect Mountain Wilderness Study Area 
                released under paragraph (3) shall be managed in 
                accordance with--
                            (i) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                            (ii) any other applicable law.
                    (C) Bennett mountains wilderness study area.--The 
                Director shall manage the portion of the Bennett 
                Mountains Wilderness Study Area released under 
                paragraph (3) in accordance with subsection (b).

SEC. 4. DESIGNATION OF LAND IN FREMONT AND NATRONA COUNTIES, WYOMING.

    (a) Designation of Upper Sweetwater Canyon and Lower Sweetwater 
Canyon Wilderness Areas.--
            (1) Designation.--
                    (A) In general.--In accordance with the Wilderness 
                Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the land within the 
                boundaries of the Sweetwater Canyon Wilderness Study 
                Area is designated as wilderness and, as described in 
                subparagraphs (B) and (C), as 2 components of the 
                National Wilderness Preservation System, to be known as 
                the ``Upper Sweetwater Canyon Wilderness'' (referred to 
                in this subsection as the ``Upper Wilderness'') and the 
                ``Lower Sweetwater Canyon Wilderness'' (referred to in 
                this subsection as the ``Lower Wilderness'').
                    (B) Upper sweetwater canyon wilderness.--
                            (i) Boundary.--
                                    (I) In general.--Except as provided 
                                in subclause (II), the boundary of the 
                                Upper Wilderness shall conform to the 
                                boundary of the Sweetwater Canyon 
                                Wilderness Study Area.
                                    (II) Eastern boundary.--The eastern 
                                boundary of the Upper Wilderness shall 
                                be 100 feet from the western edge of 
                                the north-south road bisecting the 
                                Upper Wilderness and the Lower 
                                Wilderness, known as ``Strawberry Creek 
                                Road''.
                            (ii) Exclusion of existing roads.--Any 
                        established legal route with authorized 
                        motorized use in existence on the date of 
                        enactment of this Act that enters the Upper 
                        Wilderness in T. 28 N., R. 98 W., sec. 4, or 
                        the Lower Wilderness in T. 29 N., R. 97 W., 
                        sec. 33, is not included in the Upper 
                        Wilderness.
                    (C) Lower sweetwater canyon wilderness.--
                            (i) Boundary.--
                                    (I) In general.--Except as provided 
                                in subclauses (II) and (III), the 
                                boundary of the Lower Wilderness shall 
                                conform to the boundary of the 
                                Sweetwater Canyon Wilderness Study 
                                Area.
                                    (II) Western boundary.--The western 
                                boundary of the Lower Wilderness shall 
                                be 100 feet from the eastern edge of 
                                the north-south road bisecting the 
                                Upper Wilderness and the Lower 
                                Wilderness, known as ``Strawberry Creek 
                                Road''.
                                    (III) Northern boundary.--The 
                                northern boundary of the Lower 
                                Wilderness shall begin where the 
                                bisecting road referred to in subclause 
                                (II) enters the Sweetwater Canyon 
                                Wilderness Study Area at the border of 
                                T. 29 N., R. 98 W., sec. 36, and T. 28 
                                N., R. 98 W., sec. 2, and shall run 
                                east along the boundary of T. 29 N., R. 
                                97 W., sec. 31, to the centerline of T. 
                                29 N., R. 97 W., sec. 31, then north 
                                along that centerline to the midpoint 
                                of T. 29 N., R. 97 W., sec. 31, then 
                                east along that centerline to the 
                                boundary of T. 29 N., R. 97 W., sec. 
                                32, then following the existing 
                                boundary of the Sweetwater Canyon 
                                Wilderness Study Area to the midpoint 
                                of T. 29 N., R. 97 W., sec. 32, then 
                                east along the centerline of T. 29 N., 
                                R. 97 W., secs. 32 and 33, to the 
                                existing boundary of the Sweetwater 
                                Canyon Wilderness Study Area.
                            (ii) Exclusion of existing roads.--Any 
                        established legal route with authorized 
                        motorized use in existence on the date of 
                        enactment of this Act that enters the Upper 
                        Wilderness in T. 29 N., R. 98 W., sec. 4, or 
                        the Lower Wilderness in T. 29 N., R. 97 W., 
                        sec. 33, is not included in the Lower 
                        Wilderness.
            (2) Management.--
                    (A) Administration.--Subject to valid existing 
                rights, the Upper Wilderness and the Lower Wilderness 
                shall be administered by the Director in accordance 
                with--
                            (i) this paragraph; and
                            (ii) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                        seq.), except that any reference in that Act to 
                        the effective date of that Act shall be 
                        considered to be a reference to the date of 
                        enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the Upper 
                Wilderness and the Lower Wilderness, where established 
                before the date of enactment of this Act, shall be 
                allowed to continue in accordance with--
                            (i) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act 
                        (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4));
                            (ii) the guidelines set forth in the report 
                        of the Committee on Interior and Insular 
                        Affairs of the House of Representatives 
                        accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H. 
                        Rept. 96-617); and
                            (iii) the guidelines set forth in appendix 
                        A of the Report of the Committee on Interior 
                        and Insular Affairs to accompany H.R. 2570 of 
                        the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101-405).
                    (C) Maintenance of existing roads.--Necessary 
                maintenance or repairs to any road described in 
                subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (1) shall be 
                permitted after the date of enactment of this Act, 
                consistent with the requirements of this subsection.
                    (D) Range improvements.--The construction, 
                reconstruction, and maintenance of range improvements 
                shall be allowed in the Upper Wilderness and the Lower 
                Wilderness.
                    (E) Buffer zones.--
                            (i) In general.--Nothing in this paragraph 
                        creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone 
                        around the Upper Wilderness or the Lower 
                        Wilderness.
                            (ii) Activities outside wilderness areas.--
                        The fact that an activity or use on land 
                        outside the Upper Wilderness or the Lower 
                        Wilderness can be seen or heard within the 
                        Upper Wilderness or the Lower Wilderness, 
                        respectively, shall not preclude the activity 
                        or use outside the boundary of the Upper 
                        Wilderness or the Lower Wilderness.
            (3) Release of wilderness study area.--Congress finds that, 
        for the purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the land within 
        the Sweetwater Canyon Wilderness Study Area not designated as 
        wilderness by this subsection has been adequately studied for 
        wilderness designation and is no longer subject to section 
        603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
        (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)).
    (b) Designation of Sweetwater Rocks Special Management Area.--
            (1) Designation.--The land within the Lankin Dome, Split 
        Rock, Savage Peak, and Miller Springs Wilderness Study Areas is 
        designated as the ``Sweetwater Rocks Special Management Area'' 
        (referred to in this subsection as the ``Special Management 
        Area'').
            (2) Administration.--The Special Management Area shall be 
        administered by the Director in a manner that protects--
                    (A) valid existing rights;
                    (B) agricultural uses;
                    (C) primitive recreational opportunities; and
                    (D) natural, historic, and scenic resources.
            (3) Motorized vehicles.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the use of motorized vehicles in the Special 
                Management Area shall be allowed only on established 
                legal routes with authorized motorized use existing on 
                the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Exceptions.--Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), 
                the use of motorized vehicles may be allowed in the 
                Special Management Area for the construction, 
                reconstruction, or maintenance of necessary 
                infrastructure, as determined by the Director.
            (4) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the Special 
        Management Area shall be administered in accordance with the 
        laws generally applicable to land under the jurisdiction of the 
        Bureau.
            (5) Prohibition on certain overhead towers.--No new 
        overhead transmission or communications tower shall be 
        constructed in the Special Management Area.
            (6) Underground rights-of-way.--The Director may expand any 
        underground right-of-way in the Special Management Area that 
        exists as of the date of enactment of this Act.
            (7) Buffer zones.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this subsection creates 
                a protective perimeter or buffer zone around the 
                Special Management Area.
                    (B) Activities outside special management area.--
                The fact that an activity or use on land outside the 
                Special Management Area can be seen or heard within the 
                Special Management Area shall not preclude the activity 
                or use outside the boundary of the Special Management 
                Area.
            (8) Land exchanges and easements.--
                    (A) Land exchanges.--
                            (i) In general.--The Director may propose 
                        to, and carry out with, an individual or entity 
                        owning land in the vicinity of the Special 
                        Management Area any land exchange that--
                                    (I) increases access to the Special 
                                Management Area; and
                                    (II) does not result in a net loss 
                                of Federal land.
                            (ii) Process.--The Director may carry out 
                        clause (i)--
                                    (I) through the use of existing 
                                processes; or
                                    (II) by establishing a process for 
                                proposing and carrying out land 
                                exchanges under that clause.
                    (B) Easements.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
                of law, the Director may acquire from an individual or 
                entity owning land in the vicinity of the Special 
                Management Area an easement for the purpose of 
                increasing access to the Special Management Area.
            (9) Withdrawals.--
                    (A) Mining, mineral, and geothermal withdrawal.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), subject to valid rights in 
                        existence on the date of enactment of this Act, 
                        the land within the boundaries of the Special 
                        Management Area is withdrawn from--
                                    (I) location, entry, and patent 
                                under the mining laws; and
                                    (II) disposition under all laws 
                                relating to mineral and geothermal 
                                leasing.
                            (ii) Exception.--The Secretary of the 
                        Interior may lease oil and gas resources within 
                        the boundaries of the Special Management Area 
                        if--
                                    (I) the lease may only be accessed 
                                by directional drilling from a lease 
                                that is outside of the Special 
                                Management Area; and
                                    (II) the lease prohibits, without 
                                exception or waiver, surface occupancy 
                                and surface disturbance within the 
                                Special Management Area for any 
                                activities, including activities 
                                related to exploration, development, or 
                                production.
                    (B) Wind and solar energy withdrawal.--Subject to 
                valid rights in existence on the date of enactment of 
                this Act, the land within the boundaries of the Special 
                Management Area is withdrawn from right-of-way leasing 
                and disposition under all laws relating to wind or 
                solar energy.
            (10) Release of wilderness study areas.--Congress finds 
        that, for the purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the land 
        within the Lankin Dome, Split Rock, Savage Peak, and Miller 
        Springs Wilderness Study Areas has been adequately studied for 
        wilderness designation and is no longer subject to section 
        603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
        (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)).
    (c) Release of the Dubois Badlands Wilderness Study Area.--
            (1) Division.--The Director shall divide the land within 
        the Dubois Badlands Wilderness Study Area by installing a 
        fence, or repairing or relocating an existing fence, in T. 41 
        N., R. 106 W., sec. 5, that--
                    (A) follows existing infrastructure and natural 
                barriers;
                    (B) begins at an intersection with North Mountain 
                View Road in the NE\1/4\NW\1/4\ sec. 5, T. 41 N., R. 
                106 W.;
                    (C) from the point described in subparagraph (B), 
                proceeds southeast to a point near the midpoint of the 
                NE\1/4\ sec. 5, T. 41 N., R. 106 W.; and
                    (D) from the point described in subparagraph (C), 
                proceeds southwest to a point in the SW\1/4\NE\1/4\ 
                sec. 5, T. 41 N., R. 106 W., that intersects with the 
                boundary of the Dubois Badlands Wilderness Study Area.
            (2) Dubois motorized recreation area.--
                    (A) Establishment.--There is established the Dubois 
                Motorized Recreation Area (referred to in this 
                paragraph as the ``Recreation Area'') in the State, to 
                be managed by the Director.
                    (B) Area included.--The Recreation Area shall 
                consist of--
                            (i) any land within the boundaries of the 
                        Dubois Badlands Wilderness Study Area that is 
                        west of the fence described in paragraph (1); 
                        and
                            (ii) any Federal land in T. 41 N., R. 106 
                        W., secs. 5 and 6 that--
                                    (I) is managed by the Bureau; and
                                    (II) is west of North Mountain View 
                                Road.
                    (C) Management.--
                            (i) Boundary fence.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Director shall 
                                construct a fence along the western 
                                boundary of the Recreation Area on any 
                                land that--
                                            (aa) is managed by the 
                                        Bureau; and
                                            (bb) is west of North 
                                        Mountain View Road.
                                    (II) Coordination.--In designing, 
                                locating, and constructing the fence 
                                described in subclause (I), the 
                                Director shall coordinate with the 
                                owners of any land adjacent to the land 
                                described in that subclause.
                            (ii) Travel management plan.--As soon as 
                        practicable after the date of completion of the 
                        fence described in clause (i), the Director 
                        shall establish a travel management plan for 
                        the Recreation Area to maximize the use of 
                        motorized off-road vehicles in the Recreation 
                        Area.
            (3) Dubois badlands national conservation area.--
                    (A) Establishment.--There is established the Dubois 
                Badlands National Conservation Area (referred to in 
                this paragraph as the ``Conservation Area'') in the 
                State, to be managed by the Director.
                    (B) Area included.--The Conservation Area shall 
                consist of any land within the boundaries of the Dubois 
                Badlands Wilderness Study Area that is east of the 
                fence described in paragraph (1).
                    (C) Management.--
                            (i) In general.--The Director shall manage 
                        the Conservation Area in a manner that 
                        protects--
                                    (I) valid existing rights;
                                    (II) agricultural uses;
                                    (III) primitive recreational 
                                opportunities; and
                                    (IV) natural, historic, and scenic 
                                resources.
                    (D) Motorized vehicles.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the use of motorized vehicles in 
                        the Conservation Area shall not be allowed.
                            (ii) Exceptions.--The Director may allow 
                        the use of motorized vehicles in the 
                        Conservation Area for--
                                    (I) habitat improvement;
                                    (II) the construction, 
                                reconstruction, or maintenance of range 
                                improvements; and
                                    (III) to respond to an emergency.
                    (E) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the 
                Conservation Area shall be administered in accordance 
                with the laws generally applicable to land under the 
                jurisdiction of the Bureau.
                    (F) Rights-of-way.--No major right-of-way shall be 
                allowed within the boundaries of the Conservation Area.
                    (G) Withdrawal.--
                            (i) In general.--Subject to valid rights in 
                        existence on the date of enactment of this Act, 
                        the land within the boundaries of the 
                        Conservation Area is withdrawn from--
                                    (I) location, entry, and patent 
                                under the mining laws; and
                                    (II) disposition under all laws 
                                relating to mineral and geothermal 
                                leasing.
            (4) Release.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of 
        section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
        1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the land within the Dubois Badlands 
        Wilderness Study Area has been adequately studied for 
        wilderness designation and is no longer subject to section 
        603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
        (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)).
    (d) Release of Certain Wilderness Study Areas.--
            (1) Copper mountain wilderness study area.--
                    (A) Release.--Congress finds that, for the purposes 
                of section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and 
                Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the land 
                within the Copper Mountain Wilderness Study Area--
                            (i) has been adequately studied for 
                        wilderness designation;
                            (ii) is no longer subject to section 603(c) 
                        of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
                        of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
                            (iii) shall be managed in accordance with 
                        this paragraph.
                    (B) Management of released land.--
                            (i) In general.--The land described in 
                        subparagraph (A) shall be administered by the 
                        Director in accordance with the laws generally 
                        applicable to land under the jurisdiction of 
                        the Bureau.
                            (ii) Mineral leasing.--
                                    (I) In general.--Subject to surface 
                                occupancy requirements and any other 
                                provision of law, the Director may 
                                enter mineral leases for any land 
                                described in subparagraph (A) that has 
                                a slope of less than 25 percent.
                                    (II) Underground rights-of-way.--
                                The Director may grant underground 
                                rights-of-way for any mineral lease 
                                entered into under subclause (I).
                            (iii) Prohibition of certain leases.--
                        Subject to valid rights in existence on the 
                        date of enactment of this Act, the Director 
                        shall not issue a new lease for a wind or solar 
                        project, an overhead transmission line, or a 
                        communication tower on the land described in 
                        subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Authority to exchange land.--In carrying out 
                any land exchange involving any of the land described 
                in subparagraph (A), the Director shall ensure that the 
                exchange does not result in a net loss of Federal land.
            (2) Whiskey mountain wilderness study area.--
                    (A) Release.--Congress finds that, for the purposes 
                of section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and 
                Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the land 
                within the Whiskey Mountain Wilderness Study Area--
                            (i) has been adequately studied for 
                        wilderness designation;
                            (ii) is no longer subject to section 603(c) 
                        of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
                        of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
                            (iii) shall be managed in accordance with 
                        this paragraph.
                    (B) Management of released land.--The land 
                described in subparagraph (A) shall be administered by 
                the Director in accordance with--
                            (i) a resource management plan that is 
                        applicable to any land adjacent to the land 
                        described in subparagraph (A); and
                            (ii) the Whiskey Mountain Cooperative 
                        Agreement between the Wyoming Game and Fish 
                        Commission, the Forest Service, and the Bureau, 
                        including any amendment to that agreement 
                        relating to the management of bighorn sheep.
    (e) Management of Land in Fremont County, Wyoming.--
            (1) Definition of county.--In this subsection, the term 
        ``County'' means Fremont County, Wyoming.
            (2) Lander slope and red canyon areas of environmental 
        concern.--
                    (A) Transfers.--The Director shall pursue transfers 
                in which land managed by the Bureau in the County is 
                exchanged for land owned by the State that is within 
                the boundaries of--
                            (i) the Lander Slope Area of Critical 
                        Environmental Concern; or
                            (ii) the Red Canyon Area of Critical 
                        Environmental Concern.
                    (B) Requirements.--A transfer under subparagraph 
                (A) shall--
                            (i) comply with all requirements of law, 
                        including any required analysis; and
                            (ii) be subject to appropriation.
            (3) Study.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director shall carry out a 
                study to evaluate the potential for the development of 
                special motorized recreation areas in the County.
                    (B) Requirements.--The study under subparagraph (A) 
                shall evaluate--
                            (i) the potential for the development of 
                        special motorized recreation areas on all land 
                        managed by the Bureau in the County except--
                                    (I) T. 40 N., R. 94 W., secs. 15, 
                                17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 27, 28, 29, and 
                                the N\1/2\ sec. 34; and
                                    (II) any land that is subject to a 
                                restriction on the use of off-road 
                                vehicles under any Federal law, 
                                including this Act;
                            (ii) the suitability of the land for off-
                        road vehicles, including rock crawlers; and
                            (iii) the parking, staging, and camping 
                        necessary to accommodate special motorized 
                        recreation.
                    (C) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to 
                the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
                House of Representatives a report describing the 
                findings of the study under subparagraph (A).
            (4) Fremont county implementation team.--
                    (A) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
                Interior shall establish a team, to be known as the 
                ``Fremont County Implementation Team'' (referred to in 
                this paragraph as the ``Team'') to advise and assist 
                the Director with respect to the implementation of the 
                management requirements described in this section that 
                are applicable to land in the County.
                    (B) Membership.--The team shall consist of--
                            (i) the Secretary of the Interior (or a 
                        designee of the Secretary of the Interior); and
                            (ii) 1 or more individuals appointed by the 
                        Board of County Commissioners of the County.
                    (C) Nonapplicability of the Federal Advisory 
                Committee Act.--The team shall not be subject to the 
                requirements of chapter 10 of title 5, United States 
                Code (commonly referred to as the ``Federal Advisory 
                Committee Act'').

SEC. 5. DESIGNATION OF LAND IN JOHNSON AND CAMPBELL COUNTIES, WYOMING.

    (a) Designations.--
            (1) Fortification creek management area.--The land within 
        the Fortification Creek Wilderness Study Area is designated as 
        the ``Fortification Creek Management Area''.
            (2) Fraker mountain management area.--The land within the 
        Gardner Mountain Wilderness Study Area is designated as the 
        ``Fraker Mountain Management Area''.
            (3) North fork management area.--The land within the North 
        Fork Wilderness Study Area is designated as the ``North Fork 
        Management Area''.
    (b) Management.--
            (1) Administration.--The management areas designated by 
        subsection (a) (referred to in this subsection as the 
        ``Management Areas'') shall be administered by the Director in 
        a manner that--
                    (A) promotes nonmotorized backcountry recreation, 
                including hunting; and
                    (B) supports ongoing projects to maintain and 
                improve--
                            (i) wildlife habitat;
                            (ii) forest health;
                            (iii) watershed protection; and
                            (iv) ecological and cultural values.
            (2) Roads.--
                    (A) Prohibition on new permanent roads.--The 
                construction of new permanent roads in the Management 
                Areas shall not be allowed.
                    (B) Temporary roads.--The Secretary of the Interior 
                may authorize the construction of new temporary roads 
                in the Management Areas--
                            (i) for--
                                    (I) fire suppression;
                                    (II) forest health and restoration;
                                    (III) weed and pest control;
                                    (IV) habitat management;
                                    (V) livestock management; or
                                    (VI) the construction, 
                                reconstruction, or maintenance of a 
                                range improvement; or
                            (ii) to respond to an emergency.
            (3) Motorized vehicles.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the use of motorized or mechanized vehicles in the 
                Management Areas shall not be allowed.
                    (B) Exceptions.--The Director may allow the use of 
                motorized or mechanized vehicles in the Management 
                Areas--
                            (i) for--
                                    (I) fire suppression;
                                    (II) forest health and restoration;
                                    (III) weed and pest control;
                                    (IV) habitat management;
                                    (V) livestock management; or
                                    (VI) the construction, 
                                reconstruction, or maintenance of a 
                                range improvement; or
                            (ii) to respond to an emergency.
            (4) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the Management Areas 
        shall be administered in accordance with the laws generally 
        applicable to land under the jurisdiction of the Bureau.
            (5) Prohibition on certain infrastructure.--The 
        development, construction, or installation of infrastructure 
        for recreational use shall not be allowed in--
                    (A) the Fraker Mountain Management Area; or
                    (B) the North Fork Management Area.
            (6) Withdrawal.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), subject to valid rights in existence on the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the land within the 
                boundaries of the Management Areas is withdrawn from--
                            (i) location, entry, and patent under the 
                        mining laws; and
                            (ii) disposition under all laws relating to 
                        mineral and geothermal leasing.
                    (B) Exception.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
                lease oil and gas resources within the boundaries of a 
                management area designated by paragraph (1) if--
                            (i) the lease may only be accessed by 
                        directional drilling from a lease that is 
                        outside of the management area; and
                            (ii) the lease prohibits, without exception 
                        or waiver, surface occupancy and surface 
                        disturbance within the management area for any 
                        activities, including activities related to 
                        exploration, development, or production.
            (7) Release of wilderness study areas.--Congress finds 
        that, for the purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the land 
        within the Fortification Creek Wilderness Study Area, the 
        Gardner Mountain Wilderness Study Area, and the North Fork 
        Wilderness Study Area has been adequately studied for 
        wilderness designation and is no longer subject to section 
        603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
        (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)).

SEC. 6. DESIGNATION OF LAND IN WASHAKIE AND HOT SPRINGS COUNTIES, 
              WYOMING.

    (a) Designation of Bobcat Draw Wilderness.--
            (1) Designation.--
                    (A) In general.--In accordance with the Wilderness 
                Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the approximately 6,200 
                acres of land within the Bobcat Draw Wilderness Study 
                Area described in subparagraph (B) is designated as 
                wilderness and as a component of the National 
                Wilderness Preservation System, to be known as the 
                ``Bobcat Draw Wilderness'' (referred to in this 
                subsection as the ``Wilderness'').
                    (B) Included land.--The Wilderness shall consist 
                of--
                            (i) in T. 48 N., R. 97 W., secs. 2, 3, 10, 
                        11, 15, 22, 23, 26, and 27, any land in the 
                        Bobcat Draw Wilderness Study Area that is in 
                        Washakie County, Wyoming;
                            (ii) in T. 48 N., R. 97 W., sec. 4, the 
                        land in--
                                    (I) the E\1/2\SE\1/4\;
                                    (II) lots 5, 6, 11, 12, 13 and 14 
                                of the NE\1/4\;
                                    (III) the east \1/2\ of lot 10 of 
                                the NW\1/4\; and
                                    (IV) the northeast \1/4\ of lot 15 
                                of the NW\1/4\;
                            (iii) in T. 48 N., R. 97 W., sec. 9, the 
                        land in--
                                    (I) the E\1/2\NE\1/4\;
                                    (II) the SW\1/4\NE\1/4\;
                                    (III) the E\1/2\NW\1/4\NE\1/4\;
                                    (IV) the SE\1/4\SE\1/4\NW\1/4\;
                                    (V) the SE\1/4\;
                                    (VI) the E\1/2\NE\1/4\SW\1/4\;
                                    (VII) the SW\1/4\NE\1/4\SW\1/4\;
                                    (VIII) the SE\1/4\SW\1/4\; and
                                    (IX) the E\1/2\SW\1/4\SW\1/4\;
                            (iv) in T. 48 N., R. 97 W., sec. 14, the 
                        land in--
                                    (I) the W\1/2\;
                                    (II) the W\1/2\NE\1/4\;
                                    (III) the W\1/2\SE\1/4\; and
                                    (IV) the SE\1/4\SE\1/4\;
                            (v) in T. 48 N., R. 97 W., sec. 21, the 
                        land in--
                                    (I) the NE\1/4\;
                                    (II) the E\1/2\NE\1/4\NW\1/4\;
                                    (III) the E\1/2\SE\1/4\NW\1/4\;
                                    (IV) the E\1/2\NE\1/4\SW\1/4\;
                                    (V) that part of the E\1/2\SE\1/
                                4\SW\1/4\ within the boundary of the 
                                Bobcat Draw Wilderness Study Area; and
                                    (VI) that part of the SE\1/4\ 
                                within the boundary of the Bobcat Draw 
                                Wilderness Study Area; and
                            (vi) in T. 48 N., R. 97 W., sec. 24, the 
                        land in--
                                    (I) the W\1/2\NW\1/4\; and
                                    (II) that part of the NW\1/4\SW\1/
                                4\ within the boundary of the Bobcat 
                                Draw Wilderness Study Area.
            (2) Management.--
                    (A) Administration.--Subject to valid existing 
                rights, the Wilderness shall be administered by the 
                Director in accordance with--
                            (i) this paragraph; and
                            (ii) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                        seq.), except that any reference in that Act to 
                        the effective date of that Act shall be 
                        considered to be a reference to the date of 
                        enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the 
                Wilderness, where established before the date of 
                enactment of this Act, shall be allowed to continue in 
                accordance with--
                            (i) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act 
                        (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4));
                            (ii) the guidelines set forth in the report 
                        of the Committee on Interior and Insular 
                        Affairs of the House of Representatives 
                        accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H. 
                        Rept. 96-617); and
                            (iii) the guidelines set forth in appendix 
                        A of the Report of the Committee on Interior 
                        and Insular Affairs to accompany H.R. 2570 of 
                        the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101-405).
                    (C) Review of policies, practices, and 
                regulations.--
                            (i) In general.--To ensure that the 
                        policies, practices, and regulations of the 
                        Department conform to and implement the intent 
                        of Congress regarding forest fires and the 
                        outbreak of disease or insects, not later than 
                        180 days after the date of enactment of this 
                        Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall review 
                        all policies, practices, and regulations of the 
                        Department applicable to the Wilderness that 
                        pertain to--
                                    (I) forest fires, including the use 
                                of modern methods of fire suppression 
                                (including mechanical activity, as 
                                necessary); or
                                    (II) the outbreak of disease or 
                                insect populations.
                            (ii) Revisions.--On completion of the 
                        review under clause (i), the Secretary of the 
                        Interior shall revise or develop policies, 
                        practices, and regulations for the Wilderness--
                                    (I) to ensure the timely and 
                                efficient control of fires, diseases, 
                                and insects in the Wilderness; and
                                    (II) to provide, to the maximum 
                                extent practicable, adequate protection 
                                from forest fires, disease outbreaks, 
                                and insect infestations to any Federal, 
                                State, or private land adjacent to the 
                                Wilderness.
            (3) Release of wilderness study area.--
                    (A) Release.--Congress finds that, for the purposes 
                of section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and 
                Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the land 
                within the Bobcat Draw Wilderness Study Area not 
                designated as wilderness by this subsection has been 
                adequately studied for wilderness designation and is no 
                longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)).
                    (B) Classification and management of released 
                land.--
                            (i) Classification.--The Director shall 
                        designate the land described in subparagraph 
                        (A) as visual resource management class II.
                            (ii) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock on the 
                        land described in subparagraph (A) shall be 
                        administered--
                                    (I) as a nondiscretionary use; and
                                    (II) in accordance with the laws 
                                generally applicable to land under the 
                                jurisdiction of the Bureau.
                    (C) Travel management plan.--
                            (i) In general.--Not later than 2 years 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                        Director shall develop a travel management plan 
                        for the land described in subparagraph (A).
                            (ii) Requirements.--The travel management 
                        plan under clause (i) shall--
                                    (I) identify all existing roads and 
                                trails on the land described in 
                                subparagraph (A);
                                    (II) designate each road or trail 
                                available for--
                                            (aa) motorized or 
                                        mechanized recreation; or
                                            (bb) agriculture practices;
                                    (III) prohibit the construction of 
                                any new road or trail for motorized or 
                                mechanized recreation use; and
                                    (IV) permit the continued use of 
                                nonmotorized trails.
                    (D) Withdrawal.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), subject to valid rights in 
                        existence on the date of enactment of this Act, 
                        the land described in subparagraph (A) is 
                        withdrawn from--
                                    (I) location, entry, and patent 
                                under the mining laws; and
                                    (II) disposition under all laws 
                                relating to mineral and geothermal 
                                leasing.
                            (ii) Exception.--The Secretary of the 
                        Interior may lease oil and gas resources within 
                        the land described in subparagraph (A) if--
                                    (I) the lease may only be accessed 
                                by directional drilling from a lease 
                                that is outside of the land described 
                                in subparagraph (A); and
                                    (II) the lease prohibits, without 
                                exception or waiver, surface occupancy 
                                and surface disturbance on the land 
                                described in subparagraph (A) for any 
                                activities, including activities 
                                related to exploration, development, or 
                                production.
    (b) Designation of Cedar Mountain Special Management Area.--
            (1) Designation.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the land within the Cedar Mountain Wilderness 
                Study Area is designated as the ``Cedar Mountain 
                Special Management Area'' (referred to in this 
                subsection as the ``Special Management Area'').
                    (B) Excluded land.--
                            (i) In general.--The land described in 
                        clause (ii) is not included in the Special 
                        Management Area.
                            (ii) Land described.--The land referred to 
                        in clause (i) is the land designated by the 
                        Bureau as not suitable for wilderness in--
                                    (I) the NE\1/4\NW\1/4\ sec. 5, T. 
                                44 N., R. 94 W;
                                    (II) the NE\1/4\SE\1/4\ sec. 5, T. 
                                44 N., R. 94 W;
                                    (III) the SW\1/4\NE\1/4\ sec. 5, T. 
                                44 N., R. 94 W; and
                                    (IV) the SW\1/4\SW\1/4\ sec. 32, T. 
                                45 N., R. 94 W.
            (2) Administration.--The Special Management Area shall be 
        administered by the Director in a manner that--
                    (A) maintains the recreational, scenic, cultural, 
                ecological, wildlife, and livestock production values 
                of the Special Management Area; and
                    (B) promotes continued use of the Special 
                Management Area for recreational activities, including 
                hunting and wildlife viewing.
            (3) Travel management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall 
                develop a travel management plan for the Special 
                Management Area.
                    (B) Requirements.--The travel management plan under 
                subparagraph (A) shall--
                            (i) identify all existing roads and trails 
                        in the Special Management Area;
                            (ii) designate each road or trail available 
                        for--
                                    (I) motorized or mechanized 
                                recreation; or
                                    (II) agriculture practices;
                            (iii) prohibit the construction of any new 
                        road or trail for motorized or mechanized 
                        recreation use; and
                            (iv) permit the continued use of 
                        nonmotorized trails.
            (4) Motorized vehicles.--
                    (A) Use of motorized vehicles for livestock.--The 
                use of motorized vehicles shall be allowed on any road 
                in the Special Management Area for--
                            (i) the construction, reconstruction, or 
                        maintenance of range improvements; or
                            (ii) other livestock-management purposes.
                    (B) Use of motorized vehicles for emergencies.--The 
                use of motorized vehicles shall be allowed in the 
                Special Management Area--
                            (i) for fire suppression;
                            (ii) for weed and pest management; and
                            (iii) to respond to an emergency.
            (5) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the Special 
        Management Area shall be administered--
                    (A) as a nondiscretionary use; and
                    (B) in accordance with the laws generally 
                applicable to land under the jurisdiction of the 
                Bureau.
            (6) Withdrawal.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), subject to valid rights in existence on the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the land within the 
                boundaries of the Special Management Area is withdrawn 
                from--
                            (i) location, entry, and patent under the 
                        mining laws; and
                            (ii) disposition under all laws relating to 
                        mineral and geothermal leasing.
                    (B) Exception.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
                lease oil and gas resources within the boundaries of 
                the Special Management Area if--
                            (i) the lease may only be accessed by 
                        directional drilling from a lease that is 
                        outside of the Special Management Area; and
                            (ii) the lease prohibits, without exception 
                        or waiver, surface occupancy and surface 
                        disturbance within the Special Management Area 
                        for any activities, including activities 
                        related to exploration, development, or 
                        production.
            (7) Release of wilderness study area.--
                    (A) Release.--Congress finds that, for the purposes 
                of section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and 
                Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the land 
                within the Cedar Mountain Wilderness Study Area has 
                been adequately studied for wilderness designation and 
                is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal 
                Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
                1782(c)).
                    (B) Management of certain released land.--The 
                Director shall manage any land described in 
                subparagraph (A) that is not included in the Special 
                Management Area in a manner consistent with a resource 
                management plan that is applicable to any land that--
                            (i) is managed by the Bureau; and
                            (ii) is similarly situated to the land 
                        described in subparagraph (A) that is not 
                        included in the Special Management Area.
    (c) Release of Honeycombs Wilderness Study Area.--
            (1) Release.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of 
        section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
        1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the land within the Honeycombs 
        Wilderness Study Area--
                    (A) has been adequately studied for wilderness 
                designation;
                    (B) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
                    (C) shall be managed in accordance with this 
                subsection.
            (2) Management of released land.--The land described in 
        paragraph (1) shall be administered by the Director in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (B) a resource management plan that is applicable 
                to any land adjacent to the land described in paragraph 
                (1).
    (d) Study of Land in Hot Springs and Washakie Counties.--
            (1) Definition of counties.--In this subsection, the term 
        ``Counties'' means each of the following counties in the State:
                    (A) Hot Springs County.
                    (B) Washakie County.
            (2) Study.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director shall carry out a 
                study to evaluate the potential for the development of 
                new special motorized recreation areas in the Counties.
                    (B) Requirements.--
                            (i) Land included.--The study under 
                        subparagraph (A) shall evaluate the potential 
                        for the development of new special motorized 
                        recreation areas on all land managed by the 
                        Bureau in the Counties except any land that is 
                        subject to a restriction on the use of 
                        motorized or mechanized vehicles under any 
                        Federal law, including this Act.
                            (ii) Public input; collaboration.--In 
                        carrying out the study under subparagraph (A), 
                        the Director shall--
                                    (I) offer opportunities for public 
                                input; and
                                    (II) collaborate with--
                                            (aa) Wyoming Parks, 
                                        Historic Sites, and Trails; and
                                            (bb) the Counties.
                    (C) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to 
                the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
                House of Representatives a report describing the 
                findings of the study under subparagraph (A).

SEC. 7. APPLICATION OF BLM RULE.

    The proposed rule of the Bureau entitled ``Conservation and 
Landscape Health'' (88 Fed. Reg. 19583 (April 3, 2023)) or any 
substantially similar rule shall not apply to the land covered by this 
Act.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
