<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 4929 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 4929

  To address the history of discrimination against Black farmers and 
 ranchers, to require reforms within the Department of Agriculture to 
         prevent future discrimination, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 30, 2020

 Mr. Booker (for himself, Ms. Warren, and Mrs. Gillibrand) introduced 
the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee 
                               on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To address the history of discrimination against Black farmers and 
 ranchers, to require reforms within the Department of Agriculture to 
         prevent future discrimination, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Justice for Black 
Farmers Act of 2020''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
        TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE CIVIL RIGHTS REFORMS

Sec. 101. Definitions.
Sec. 102. Independent Civil Rights Oversight Board.
Sec. 103. Equity Commission.
Sec. 104. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights reforms.
Sec. 105. Data collection and reporting.
                   TITLE II--BLACK FARMER LAND GRANTS

Sec. 201. Definitions.
Sec. 202. Establishment of the Under Secretary of Agriculture for 
                            Equitable Land Access and the Equitable 
                            Land Access Service.
Sec. 203. Provision of land grants.
Sec. 204. Identification of land.
Sec. 205. Restrictions on conveyed land.
Sec. 206. Eligibility for assistance.
Sec. 207. Completion of farmer training program and succession 
                            planning.
Sec. 208. Grants for qualified entities.
Sec. 209. Farm Conservation Corps.
Sec. 210. Annual report to Congress.
  TITLE III--FUNDING FOR HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

Sec. 301. Funding for Historically Black Colleges and Universities.
Sec. 302. USDA/1890 National Scholars Program.
             TITLE IV--LAND RETENTION AND CREDIT ASSISTANCE

Sec. 401. Protections for land ownership.
Sec. 402. Access to credit for socially disadvantaged farmers and 
                            ranchers.
Sec. 403. Additional credit assistance.
Sec. 404. Foreclosure moratorium.
                  TITLE V--AGRICULTURAL SYSTEM REFORMS

       Subtitle A--Amendments to Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921

Sec. 501. Definitions.
Sec. 502. Unlawful practices.
Sec. 503. Spot market purchases of livestock by packers.
Sec. 504. Investigation of live poultry dealers.
Sec. 505. Award of attorney fees.
Sec. 506. Technical amendments.
              Subtitle B--Local Agriculture Market Program

Sec. 511. Local Agriculture Market Program.
         Subtitle C--Conservation and Renewable Energy Programs

Sec. 521. Conservation technical assistance.
Sec. 522. Conservation Stewardship Program.
Sec. 523. Rural Energy for America Program.
Sec. 524. Conservation and renewable energy programs priority.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (2) Socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher.--The term 
        ``socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher'' means a farmer or 
        rancher who is a member of a socially disadvantaged group.
            (3) Socially disadvantaged group.--The term ``socially 
        disadvantaged group'' means a group whose members have been 
        subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice because of their 
        identity as members of a group without regard to their 
        individual qualities.

        TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE CIVIL RIGHTS REFORMS

SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary'' 
        means the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Civil Rights.
            (2) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the Department of 
        Agriculture Civil Rights Oversight Board established by section 
        102(a).
            (3) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Equity 
        Commission established by section 103(a)(1).
            (4) Office.--The term ``Office'' means the Office of the 
        Assistant Secretary.

SEC. 102. INDEPENDENT CIVIL RIGHTS OVERSIGHT BOARD.

    (a) In General.--There is established in the Department of 
Agriculture an independent board, to be known as the ``Department of 
Agriculture Civil Rights Oversight Board''--
            (1) to oversee the Office; and
            (2) to protect the rights of individuals who seek to file, 
        or do file, a discrimination complaint with the Office.
    (b) Duties.--The Board shall--
            (1)(A) conduct a de novo review with fact finding power, 
        including notice and opportunity for a hearing, of any appeal 
        of a decision made by the Office, including any appeal of a 
        dismissal of a complaint; and
            (B) issue a written decision within 180 days of receipt of 
        an appeal or dismissal described in subparagraph (A);
            (2) investigate reports of discrimination within the 
        Department of Agriculture, make findings of fact and 
        conclusions of law in accordance with the findings, and 
        recommend to the Secretary appropriate actions relative to 
        specific findings;
            (3) recommend improvements to Department of Agriculture 
        policies and procedures to address patterns and practices of 
        discrimination and to prevent further discrimination;
            (4) conduct regular reviews to assess the compliance of the 
        Office with civil rights, fair employment, and pay equity laws 
        and policies applicable to the Office;
            (5) provide oversight over Farm Service Agency county 
        committees;
            (6)(A) assess the progress made by the programs and 
        policies established under this Act and the amendments made by 
        this Act; and
            (B) submit recommendations for improvements to those 
        programs or policies to the Secretary; and
            (7)(A) prepare an annual report on the status of socially 
        disadvantaged farmers and ranchers and the treatment of 
        socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers by the Department 
        of Agriculture;
            (B) make each report prepared under subparagraph (A) 
        publicly available; and
            (C) submit each report prepared under subparagraph (A) to 
        the Attorney General.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030 such sums as 
are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 103. EQUITY COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established in the Department of 
        Agriculture the Equity Commission, the purposes of which are--
                    (A) to study historical and continuing 
                discrimination by the Department of Agriculture against 
                Black farmers and ranchers that is fostered or 
                perpetuated by the laws, policies, or practices of the 
                Department of Agriculture; and
                    (B) to recommend actions to end the systematic 
                disparities in treatment of Black farmers and ranchers, 
                particularly by the Department of Agriculture.
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) Composition.--The Commission shall be composed 
                of 9 members, to be appointed by the Secretary, of 
                whom--
                            (i) 3 shall be Black farmers or ranchers 
                        with not less than 10 years of experience in 
                        farming or ranching;
                            (ii) 3 shall be employees or board members 
                        of nonprofit organizations that have not less 
                        than 7 years of experience providing meaningful 
                        agricultural, business assistance, legal 
                        assistance, or advocacy services to Black 
                        farmers or ranchers; and
                            (iii) 3 shall be faculty or staff from 1890 
                        Institutions (as defined in section 2 of the 
                        Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education 
                        Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7601)) or the 
                        University of the District of Columbia.
                    (B) Date.--The appointments of the members of the 
                Commission shall be made not later than 90 days after 
                the date of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Period of appointment; vacancies.--
                    (A) In general.--A member of the Commission shall 
                be appointed for the life of the Commission.
                    (B) Vacancies.--A vacancy in the Commission--
                            (i) shall not affect the powers of the 
                        Commission; and
                            (ii) shall be filled in the same manner as 
                        the original appointment.
            (4) Meetings.--
                    (A) Initial meeting.--Not later than 30 days after 
                the date on which all members of the Commission have 
                been appointed, the Commission shall hold the first 
                meeting of the Commission.
                    (B) Frequency.--The Commission shall meet at the 
                call of the Chairperson.
                    (C) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the 
                Commission shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser 
                number of members may hold hearings.
            (5) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--The Commission shall 
        select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among the 
        members of the Commission.
    (b) Duties of the Commission.--
            (1) Study.--The Commission shall study discrimination 
        against Black farmers and ranchers by the Department of 
        Agriculture, including by conducting investigations of--
                    (A) the prevalence of discrimination against Black 
                farmers and ranchers in Department of Agriculture 
                agencies and programs, including Farm Service Agency 
                county committees; and
                    (B) the status of claimants who filed for relief 
                under the settlement agreement and consent decree in 
                Pigford v. Glickman, 185 F.R.D. 82 (D.D.C. 1999) or the 
                settlement agreement in Black Farmers Discrimination 
                Litigation, Misc. No. 08-mc-0511 (PLF), with a 
                particular focus on the status of claimants who did not 
                receive payments.
            (2) Recommendations.--The Commission shall develop 
        recommendations for--
                    (A) ending the systematic disparities in treatment 
                of Black farmers and ranchers, particularly by the 
                Department of Agriculture;
                    (B) improving the structure of Farm Service Agency 
                county committees to better serve socially 
                disadvantaged farmers and ranchers, including, if 
                necessary, recommending the elimination and replacement 
                of those committees; and
                    (C) addressing any mishandling of payments 
                identified through studying the matters under paragraph 
                (1)(B).
            (3) Outreach.--In studying the matters under paragraph (1) 
        and developing recommendations under paragraph (2), the 
        Commission shall--
                    (A) consult with the Socially Disadvantaged Farmers 
                and Ranchers Policy Research Center; and
                    (B) hold town hall meetings with socially 
                disadvantaged farmers and ranchers, researchers, and 
                civil rights advocates.
            (4) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commission shall make publicly 
        available a detailed report that describes--
                    (A) the findings of the study under paragraph (1); 
                and
                    (B) the recommendations developed under paragraph 
                (2).
    (c) Powers of Commission.--
            (1) Hearings.--The Commission shall hold open, televised, 
        and public hearings, during which the Commission may sit and 
        act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive 
        such evidence as the Commission considers advisable to carry 
        out this section.
            (2) Information from federal agencies.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission may secure directly 
                from a Federal department or agency such information as 
                the Commission considers necessary to carry out this 
                section.
                    (B) Furnishing information.--On request of the 
                Chairperson of the Commission, the head of the 
                department or agency shall furnish the information to 
                the Commission.
            (3) Postal services.--The Commission may use the United 
        States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions 
        as other departments and agencies of the Federal Government.
            (4) Gifts.--The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of 
        gifts or donations of services or property.
    (d) Commission Personnel Matters.--
            (1) Compensation of members.--A member of the Commission 
        who is not an officer or employee of the Federal Government 
        shall be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of 
        the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the 
        Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States 
        Code, for each day (including travel time) during which the 
        member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the 
        Commission.
            (2) Travel expenses.--A member of the Commission shall be 
        allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies 
        under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
        Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business 
        in the performance of services for the Commission.
            (3) Staff.--
                    (A) In general.--The Chairperson of the Commission 
                may, without regard to the civil service laws 
                (including regulations), appoint and terminate an 
                executive director and such other additional personnel 
                as may be necessary to enable the Commission to perform 
                its duties, except that the employment of an executive 
                director shall be subject to confirmation by the 
                Commission.
                    (B) Compensation.--The Chairperson of the 
                Commission may fix the compensation of the executive 
                director and other personnel without regard to chapter 
                51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United 
                States Code, relating to classification of positions 
                and General Schedule pay rates, except that the rate of 
                pay for the executive director and other personnel may 
                not exceed the rate payable for level V of the 
                Executive Schedule under section 5316 of that title.
            (4) Detail of government employees.--A Federal Government 
        employee may be detailed to the Commission without 
        reimbursement, and such detail shall be without interruption or 
        loss of civil service status or privilege.
            (5) Procurement of temporary and intermittent services.--
        The Chairperson of the Commission may procure temporary and 
        intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United 
        States Code, at rates for individuals that do not exceed the 
        daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for 
        level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of that 
        title.
    (e) Termination of Commission.--The Commission shall terminate on 
the date that is 30 days after the date on which the Commission makes 
publicly available the report under subsection (b)(4).
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030 such sums as 
are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 104. OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR CIVIL RIGHTS REFORMS.

    (a) Ombudsman.--The Secretary shall establish in the Department of 
Agriculture a position of Civil Rights Ombudsman--
            (1) to assist individuals in navigating Office programs; 
        and
            (2) to provide recommendations to the Secretary for grants 
        provided under subsection (g).
    (b) Deadline for Decisions.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
on which the Office receives a civil rights complaint, the Assistant 
Secretary shall make a final decision of the Assistant Secretary 
regarding the merit of the complaint and the appropriate disposition of 
the matter.
    (c) Appeals to Board.--
            (1) In general.--A person that receives an adverse decision 
        or dismissal by the Office on a civil rights complaint filed by 
        the person may appeal the decision or dismissal to the Board 
        for a final decision.
            (2) Deadline.--An appeal under paragraph (1) shall be filed 
        not later than 1 year after the date of the adverse decision or 
        dismissal described in that paragraph.
            (3) Effect of board decision.--A decision of the Board on 
        an appeal filed under paragraph (1), or a dismissal of such an 
        appeal for lack of jurisdiction, shall constitute exhaustion of 
        administrative remedies and be reviewable in Federal court.
    (d) Moratorium on Foreclosures.--The Secretary shall not take any 
action on a foreclosure proceeding against any farmer or rancher during 
any period that a civil rights complaint filed by the farmer or rancher 
with the Office is outstanding, including an appeal to the Board under 
subsection (c)(1).
    (e) Reports.--The Assistant Secretary shall--
            (1) publish on the website of the Office and submit to the 
        Board a report of each civil rights complaint filed with the 
        Office and the results of each such complaint; and
            (2) include in each report described in paragraph (1) a 
        description of the race, ethnicity, gender, and geographic 
        region of the complainant.
    (f) Prohibition on Interference by the Office of the General 
Counsel.--The Office of General Counsel of the Department of 
Agriculture shall not have any involvement with the investigation, 
adjudication, or resolution of any civil rights complaint brought 
against the Secretary.
    (g) Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, based on recommendations 
        from the Civil Rights Ombudsman, shall provide grants to 
        community-based organizations and advocates with a history of 
        working with socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers to 
        provide technical assistance to farmers and ranchers seeking to 
        file a civil rights complaint with the Office.
            (2) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated, and 
        there is appropriated, out of amounts in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
        2021 through 2030 to carry out this subsection.
    (h) Direct Reporting to the Secretary of Agriculture.--Section 
218(c) of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 
U.S.C. 6918(c)) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Duties of'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) as 
        subparagraphs (A) through (C), respectively, and indenting 
        appropriately;
            (3) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) (as so 
        redesignated), by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) Duties.--The Secretary''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Direct reporting to the secretary.--If the Secretary 
        establishes the position of Assistant Secretary for Civil 
        Rights under subsection (a)(3), the Assistant Secretary for 
        Civil Rights shall report directly to the Secretary.''.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to amounts made 
available under subsection (g)(2), there are authorized to be 
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030 such sums as 
are necessary to carry out this section and the amendments made by this 
section.

SEC. 105. DATA COLLECTION AND REPORTING.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall make publicly available annual 
reports describing data on the recipients of Department of Agriculture 
assistance, including assistance from farm subsidy programs, and the 
amounts of the assistance, delineated by the race, ethnicity, and 
gender of the recipients.
    (b) ERS Research of Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers.--
The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Economic 
Research Service, shall conduct research on the status of socially 
disadvantaged farmers and ranchers, including--
            (1) the share of land ownership of those socially 
        disadvantaged farmers and ranchers as compared to all farmers 
        and ranchers, delineated by the race, ethnicity, and gender of 
        the landowners;
            (2) the share of the amount of assistance those socially 
        disadvantaged farmers and ranchers receive from the Department 
        of Agriculture as compared to all farmers and ranchers, 
        delineated by the race, ethnicity, and gender of the 
        recipients;
            (3) the share, status, and receipt of Farm Credit System 
        loans by socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers as 
        compared to all farmers and ranchers, delineated by the race, 
        ethnicity, and gender of the recipients; and
            (4) an assessment of the reasons for disparities in land 
        ownership, assistance from the Department of Agriculture, and 
        Farm Credit System loans for socially disadvantaged farmers and 
        ranchers compared to all farmers and ranchers.
    (c) ERS Research of Farmworkers.--The Secretary, acting through the 
Administrator of the Economic Research Service, shall conduct research 
on the demographics and status of farmworkers, including--
            (1) the races, ethnicities, ages, localities, wages and 
        benefits, and working conditions of farmworkers;
            (2) the economic contributions of farmworkers to the United 
        States economy; and
            (3) satisfaction of farmworkers with their employment.
    (d) Census of Agriculture.--The Secretary, acting through the 
Administrator of the National Agricultural Statistics Service, shall--
            (1) investigate historical changes in reporting methodology 
        and misreporting of Black farmers and ranchers in the census of 
        agriculture;
            (2) develop procedures to ensure that census of agriculture 
        surveys accurately capture the status of socially disadvantaged 
        farmers and ranchers engaged in urban agriculture; and
            (3) conduct, concurrently with each census of agriculture, 
        a review to assess--
                    (A) the outreach and methodologies used in 
                conducting the census of agriculture; and
                    (B) how such outreach and methodologies have 
                affected the counting of socially disadvantaged farmers 
                and ranchers.
    (e) Corporate Ownership of Farmland.--The Secretary shall annually 
conduct, and annually make publicly available reports describing, in-
depth research and analysis of corporate (domestic and foreign) land 
investment and ownership in the United States, with specific attention 
given to the impact of corporate land investment and ownership on--
            (1) land consolidation trends in the United States;
            (2) challenges and opportunities for new and beginning 
        farmers and ranchers accessing land for farming or ranching;
            (3) challenges and opportunities for members of socially 
        disadvantaged groups accessing land for farming or ranching; 
        and
            (4) crop selection and production trends.
    (f) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated, and there is 
appropriated, out of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030 to 
carry out this section.

                   TITLE II--BLACK FARMER LAND GRANTS

SEC. 201. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Animal feeding operation.--The term ``animal feeding 
        operation'' means a lot or facility at which--
                    (A) for not less than a total of 45 days in any 12-
                month period, animals (other than aquatic animals) 
                are--
                            (i) stabled or confined; and
                            (ii) fed or maintained; and
                    (B) crops, vegetation, forage growth, or 
                postharvest residues are not sustained in the normal 
                growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
            (2) Eligible black individual.--The term ``eligible Black 
        individual'' means a person who--
                    (A) was born in the United States;
                    (B) is at least 21 years of age;
                    (C) has previously identified as Black or African 
                American; and
                    (D) has at least 1 parent of African ancestry.
            (3) Farmer training.--The term ``farmer training'' means a 
        program that--
                    (A) provides eligible Black individuals and other 
                enrollees with the basic skills to operate a farm or 
                ranch profitably with a primary focus on regenerating 
                the soil, ecosystem, and local community;
                    (B) provides a course of study that is equivalent 
                to not less than 30 academic credit hours of study, 
                which may be provided as direct in-field instruction;
                    (C) is approved by the Undersecretary of the 
                Equitable Land Access Service as an authorized program 
                to meet the farmer training program requirement under 
                section 207(a) for recipients of land grants under 
                section 203(a)(2);
                    (D) focuses training on low-capital-intensive 
                techniques and technologies; and
                    (E) includes a robust study of local and regional 
                food systems and the market opportunities those systems 
                present.
            (4) Qualified entity.--The term ``qualified entity'' 
        means--
                    (A) an organization--
                            (i)(I) described in section 501(c)(3) of 
                        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt 
                        from taxation under 501(a) of that Code; or
                            (II) that has a fiscal sponsor that is an 
                        organization described in subclause (I);
                            (ii) that has not less than 3 years of 
                        experience providing meaningful agricultural, 
                        business assistance, legal assistance, or 
                        advocacy services to Black farmers or ranchers; 
                        and
                            (iii) at least 50 percent of the members of 
                        the board of directors of which are Black; and
                    (B) an 1890 Institution (as defined in section 2 of 
                the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education 
                Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7601)), including the 
                University of the District of Columbia.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary, 
        acting through the Under Secretary of Agriculture for Equitable 
        Land Access.

SEC. 202. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE FOR 
              EQUITABLE LAND ACCESS AND THE EQUITABLE LAND ACCESS 
              SERVICE.

    (a) Establishment.--The Department of Agriculture Reorganization 
Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

                  ``Subtitle L--Equitable Land Access

``SEC. 297. UNDER SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE FOR EQUITABLE LAND ACCESS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish in the Department 
the position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for Equitable Land 
Access.
    ``(b) Confirmation Required.--The Under Secretary of Agriculture 
for Equitable Land Access shall be appointed by the President, by and 
with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    ``(c) Functions.--The Secretary shall delegate to the Under 
Secretary of Agriculture for Equitable Land Access the functions of the 
Department carried out through the Equitable Land Access Service.

``SEC. 297A. EQUITABLE LAND ACCESS SERVICE.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the Department the 
Equitable Land Access Service.
    ``(b) Under Secretary.--The Equitable Land Access Service shall be 
headed by the Under Secretary of Agriculture for Equitable Land Access.
    ``(c) Functions.--The Secretary shall carry out through the 
Equitable Land Access Service title II of the Justice for Black Farmers 
Act of 2020.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Subtitle A of the Department of Agriculture 
        Reorganization Act of 1994 is amended by redesignating section 
        225 (7 U.S.C. 6925) as section 224A.
            (2) Section 296(b) of the Department of Agriculture 
        Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:
            ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
        amendments made to this Act by the Justice for Black Farmers 
        Act of 2020.''.
            (3) Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
        by inserting after the item relating to the Under Secretary of 
        Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs the 
        following:
            ``Under Secretary of Agriculture for Equitable Land 
        Access.''.

SEC. 203. PROVISION OF LAND GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) purchase from willing sellers, at a price not greater 
        than fair market value, available agricultural land in the 
        United States; and
            (2) subject to section 205, convey grants of that land to 
        eligible Black individuals at no cost to the eligible Black 
        individuals.
    (b) Requirement.--To the maximum extent practicable, if sufficient 
applications are submitted by eligible Black individuals, the Secretary 
shall convey not less than 20,000 land grants to eligible Black 
individuals under subsection (a)(2) for each of fiscal years 2021 
through 2030.
    (c) Maximum Acreage.--A land grant to an eligible Black individual 
under subsection (a)(2) shall be not more than 160 acres.
    (d) Applications.--
            (1) In general.--An eligible Black individual seeking a 
        land grant under subsection (a)(2) shall submit to the 
        Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information as the Secretary may require, 
        including a legal description of the land identified under 
        section 204 of which the eligible Black individual is seeking 
        the grant.
            (2) Qualified entities.--
                    (A) In general.--A qualified entity that receives a 
                grant under section 208 may submit to the Secretary an 
                application under paragraph (1) on behalf of 1 or more 
                eligible Black individuals seeking a land grant under 
                subsection (a)(2).
                    (B) Applications to subdivide and convey.--If 
                applicable, an application submitted under subparagraph 
                (A) shall include a proposal for how the land will be 
                subdivided and conveyed separately to eligible Black 
                individuals as described in section 204(b).
    (e) Priority.--The Secretary shall give priority to applications 
submitted under subsection (c) for land grants to--
            (1) eligible Black individuals who are currently farmers or 
        ranchers;
            (2) eligible Black individuals with a family history of 
        land dispossession;
            (3) eligible Black individuals with experience in 
        agriculture, including experience obtained through 
        participation in the Farm Conservation Corps established under 
        section 209; and
            (4) eligible Black individuals who are veterans.
    (f) Tax Treatment.--For purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986, no amount shall be includible in gross income of an eligible 
Black individual by reason of the receipt of any land grant under this 
section.
    (g) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated, and there is 
appropriated, out of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $8,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 204. IDENTIFICATION OF LAND.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall refer an eligible Black 
individual seeking a land grant under section 203 to a qualified entity 
that receives a grant under section 208 to assist the eligible Black 
individual in identifying available agricultural land in the United 
States that is suitable for purchase by the Secretary and conveyance to 
the eligible Black individual under section 203.
    (b) Subdivisions.--In carrying out subsection (a), a qualified 
entity may assist eligible Black individuals in identifying land 
described in that subsection that is suitable to be subdivided and 
conveyed separately to multiple eligible Black individuals under 
section 203.

SEC. 205. RESTRICTIONS ON CONVEYED LAND.

    (a) In General.--Before conveying a land grant under section 
203(a)(2), the Secretary shall attach to the land an easement requiring 
that the land be--
            (1) restricted in perpetuity for agricultural use, but with 
        an allowance for constructing or improving and maintaining 1 
        primary residence and housing for farmworkers on the land; and
            (2) subject in perpetuity to the conservation requirements 
        that--
                    (A) an animal feeding operation may not be operated 
                on the land, with the exception that an animal feeding 
                operation with fewer than 299 animal units may be 
                operated during times of the year that outdoor access 
                is not possible due to weather conditions; and
                    (B) the land shall be subject to applicable highly 
                erodible land and wetland conservation requirements in 
                effect on the date of enactment of this Act under 
                subtitles B and C of title XII of the Food Security Act 
                of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3811 et seq.).
    (b) Right of Reentry.--
            (1) In general.--A deed conveying a land grant under 
        section 203(a)(2) shall include a right of reentry for the 
        Secretary if the Secretary--
                    (A) determines, after giving notice and a 
                reasonable opportunity for a hearing, that a 
                requirement described in subsection (a) of an easement 
                attached to that land has been violated; and
                    (B) determines that the violation has not been 
                remedied within 60 days after the date of the 
                determination under subparagraph (A).
            (2) Expiration.--The right of reentry described in 
        paragraph (1) shall expire on the date that is 5 years after 
        the date of conveyance.
    (c) Right of First Refusal.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning on the day after the expiration 
        date described in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) the recipient of the land grant may sell the 
                land; but
                    (B) the Secretary shall have a right of first 
                refusal to purchase the land at the appraised value of 
                the land.
            (2) Delegation.--The Secretary may, on a case-by-case 
        basis, delegate the right of first refusal under paragraph 
        (1)(B) to a qualified entity that requests the delegation.
    (d) Requirement.--If the Secretary purchases land under subsection 
(c)(1)(B), the Secretary shall convey the land to another eligible 
Black individual under section 203(a)(2).

SEC. 206. ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Farm Operating Loans.--
            (1) Eligible black individuals.--Beginning on the date of 
        conveyance of a land grant under section 203(a)(2), the 
        eligible Black individual that receives the land grant shall be 
        eligible for a direct operating loan under subtitle B of the 
        Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1941 et 
        seq.), notwithstanding any borrower eligibility requirements 
        under subparagraph (B) or (D) of section 311(a)(1) of that Act 
        (7 U.S.C. 1941(a)(1)) for such a loan.
            (2) Socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers.--During 
        the 5-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this 
        Act, any socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher shall be 
        eligible for a direct operating loan under subtitle B of the 
        Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1941 et 
        seq.), notwithstanding any borrower eligibility requirements 
        under subparagraph (B) or (D) of section 311(a)(1) of that Act 
        (7 U.S.C. 1941(a)(1)) for such a loan.
            (3) Interest and deferment.--In the case of an operating 
        loan under paragraph (1) or (2)--
                    (A) the interest rate shall be zero percent for the 
                first 7 years of the term of the loan; and
                    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture shall defer 
                payments for the first 24 months.
    (b) Single Family Home Mortgages.--Beginning on the date of 
conveyance of a land grant under section 203(a)(2), the eligible Black 
individual that receives the land grant shall be eligible for a direct 
loan under section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472), 
notwithstanding any borrower eligibility requirements for such a loan, 
for the construction or improvement of a single family home on the 
conveyed land.
    (c) Funding.--There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as 
are necessary to carry out this section for each of fiscal years 2021 
through 2030.

SEC. 207. COMPLETION OF FARMER TRAINING PROGRAM AND SUCCESSION 
              PLANNING.

    (a) Required Training.--As a condition on the receipt of a land 
grant under section 203(a)(2), any recipient who does not have at least 
2 years of prior experience in agriculture shall be required to 
complete, at no cost, a farmer training program established pursuant to 
section 208(a)(4).
    (b) Optional Training.--Any eligible Black individual who has at 
least 2 years of prior experience in agriculture, and any socially 
disadvantaged farmer or rancher, may complete, at no cost, a farmer 
training program established pursuant to section 208(a)(4).
    (c) Succession Planning.--As a condition on the receipt of a land 
grant under section 203(a)(2), each recipient shall collaborate with a 
qualified entity to develop a succession plan.

SEC. 208. GRANTS FOR QUALIFIED ENTITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish a program to provide 
grants to qualified entities to use as operating amounts--
            (1) to support eligible Black individuals in identifying 
        land under section 204, including developing proposals for how 
        land may be subdivided as described in subsection (b) of that 
        section;
            (2) to support eligible Black individuals in acquiring that 
        land through a land grant under section 203(a)(2), including by 
        submitting applications on behalf of eligible Black individuals 
        under section 203(d)(2);
            (3) to support eligible Black individuals in starting up 
        farm operations on that land;
            (4) to provide eligible Black individuals and socially 
        disadvantaged farmers and ranchers with farmer training; and
            (5) to provide other assistance, including legal advocacy, 
        succession planning, and support for the development of farmer 
        cooperatives, to eligible Black individuals and other Black 
        farmers and ranchers.
    (b) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated, and there is 
appropriated, out of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $1,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 209. FARM CONSERVATION CORPS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish a civilian 
conservation corps, to be known as the ``Farm Conservation Corps'' to 
provide young adults ages 18 to 29 from socially disadvantaged groups 
with the academic, vocational, and social skills necessary to pursue 
long-term, productive careers in farming and ranching.
    (b) Requirement.--To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary 
shall enroll not fewer than 20,000 young adults in the Farm 
Conservation Corps pursuant to subsection (a) in each of fiscal years 
2021 through 2030.
    (c) Farmworker Services.--Members of the Farm Conservation Corps 
shall serve as on-farm apprentices, at no cost, to--
            (1) socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers, the annual 
        gross farm income of whom is less than $250,000;
            (2) beginning farmers and ranchers, the annual gross farm 
        income of whom is less than $250,000; and
            (3) farmers and ranchers operating certified organic farms 
        (as defined in section 2103 of the Organic Foods Production Act 
        of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6502)), the annual gross farm income of whom 
        is less than $250,000.
    (d) Duration of Participation.--An individual shall serve in the 
Farm Conservation Corps for not more than 2 years.
    (e) Housing and Care.--The Secretary shall provide to each member 
of the Farm Conservation Corps, for the duration of the participation--
            (1) housing, subsistence, clothing, medical attention 
        (including hospitalization), and transportation; or
            (2) a cash allowance sufficient for the applicable locality 
        to cover costs described in paragraph (1).
    (f) Compensation.--Members of the Farm Conservation Corps shall be 
paid for their services as a farmworker at a rate consistent with the 
minimum wage applicable to a nonimmigrant described in section 
101(a)(15)(H)(ii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)) for services as a farmworker in the applicable 
locality.
    (g) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated, and there is 
appropriated, out of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $1,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030 
to carry out this section.

SEC. 210. ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    The Secretary shall submit to Congress and make publicly available 
annual reports describing data on land grants under this title, 
including--
            (1) the number of land grants;
            (2) the recipients of land grants;
            (3) the total number of acres of land granted;
            (4) the number of acres of land granted by county; and
            (5) the types of new farming or ranching operations 
        established on the granted land.

  TITLE III--FUNDING FOR HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

SEC. 301. FUNDING FOR HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated, and there 
is appropriated, out of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2021 and each of the 
succeeding 9 fiscal years for the Secretary of Education to provide 
funding to part B institutions (as defined in section 322 of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1061)).
    (b) Use of Funding.--The funding provided by subsection (a) shall 
be used by part B institutions described in that subsection--
            (1)(A) to commence new courses of study and expand existing 
        courses of study focused on careers in agriculture, 
        agriculture-related fields, or other related disciplines; and
            (B) to recruit students for those courses of study; and
            (2) to commence research to further the study of--
                    (A) regenerative agricultural practices; and
                    (B) market opportunities for socially disadvantaged 
                farmers and ranchers.

SEC. 302. USDA/1890 NATIONAL SCHOLARS PROGRAM.

    The National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 is amended by inserting after section 1446 (7 U.S.C. 3222a) 
the following:

``SEC. 1446A. USDA/1890 NATIONAL SCHOLARS PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Definition of Program.--In this section, the term `program' 
means the USDA/1890 National Scholars Program established by the 
Secretary.
    ``(b) Authorization.--The Secretary shall continue to carry out the 
program.
    ``(c) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated, and there 
is appropriated, out of amounts in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $20,000,000 for each fiscal year to carry out the 
program.''.

             TITLE IV--LAND RETENTION AND CREDIT ASSISTANCE

SEC. 401. PROTECTIONS FOR LAND OWNERSHIP.

    (a) Relending Program To Resolve Ownership and Succession on 
Farmland.--Section 310I(g) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1936c(g)) is amended by striking ``through 
2023'' and inserting ``and 2020 and $50,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2021 through 2023''.
    (b) Reports on Land Access and Farmland Ownership Data 
Collection.--Section 12607(c) of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 
2018 (7 U.S.C. 2204i(c)) is amended by striking ``through 2023'' and 
inserting ``and 2020 and $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 
through 2023''.
    (c) Family Farmer Income.--Section 101(18)(A) of title 11, United 
States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
striking ``50 percent'' and inserting ``30 percent''.

SEC. 402. ACCESS TO CREDIT FOR SOCIALLY DISADVANTAGED FARMERS AND 
              RANCHERS.

    (a) National Socially Disadvantaged Farmer and Rancher Bank.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection--
                    (A) the term ``Bank'' means the National Socially 
                Disadvantaged Farmer and Rancher Bank established under 
                paragraph (2);
                    (B) the term ``community development financial 
                institution'' has the meaning given the term in section 
                103 of the Community Development Banking and Financial 
                Institutions Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4702); and
                    (C) the term ``eligible entity'' means--
                            (i) a credit union, mutual savings bank, or 
                        mutual savings and loan association--
                                    (I) that--
                                            (aa) is operated on a 
                                        cooperative, not-for-profit 
                                        basis; and
                                            (bb) provides financial 
                                        services or facilities for the 
                                        benefit of--

                                                    (AA) the members of 
                                                the entity; or

                                                    (BB) voting 
                                                stockholders who are 
                                                the ultimate recipients 
                                                of those financial 
                                                services or facilities; 
                                                and

                                    (II) not less than 60 percent of 
                                the members or voting stockholders of 
                                which are socially disadvantaged 
                                farmers or ranchers; or
                            (ii) a not-for-profit community development 
                        financial institution, if not less than 75 
                        percent of the total dollar value of the loans 
                        made by the institution consist of loans made 
                        to socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers.
            (2) Establishment of bank.--
                    (A) In general.--Congress hereby creates and 
                charters a bank to be known as the National Socially 
                Disadvantaged Farmer and Rancher Bank, the sole mission 
                of which shall be to provide financing and other 
                assistance in accordance with the requirements of this 
                subsection.
                    (B) Board of directors.--
                            (i) In general.--The Bank shall be governed 
                        by a Board of Directors--
                                    (I) which shall consist of 13 
                                members; and
                                    (II) each member of which shall be 
                                appointed by the President, by and with 
                                the advice and consent of the Senate.
                            (ii) Term.--Each member of the Board of 
                        Directors of the Bank shall serve for a term of 
                        3 years.
            (3) Lending authority.--
                    (A) In general.--The Bank may make loans and loan 
                guarantees to eligible entities.
                    (B) Terms.--With respect to a loan made by the Bank 
                to an eligible entity--
                            (i) the term of the loan shall be 30 years;
                            (ii) the interest rate with respect to the 
                        loan shall be the interest rate on 30-year 
                        Treasury bonds, as of the date on which the 
                        loan is made; and
                            (iii) before the end of the term described 
                        in clause (i), the eligible entity--
                                    (I) shall not be required to make 
                                any principal payments with respect to 
                                the loan; and
                                    (II) shall make interest payments 
                                with respect to the loan.
                    (C) Condition of financing for certain eligible 
                entities.--With respect to a loan or loan guarantee 
                made under this paragraph to an eligible entity 
                described in paragraph (1)(C)(ii), the Bank, as a 
                condition of the financing, shall require the eligible 
                entity to ensure that, for the full term of the loan or 
                loan guarantee made by the Bank, not less than 75 
                percent of the total dollar value of the loans made by 
                the eligible entity consist of loans made to socially 
                disadvantaged farmers or ranchers.
            (4) Grant program.--
                    (A) In general.--The Bank shall establish a program 
                through which the Bank may make a grant to assist--
                            (i) an entity in becoming an eligible 
                        entity; or
                            (ii) an eligible entity with the 
                        commencement or expansion of operations of the 
                        eligible entity, including with respect to 
                        outreach, education, and training activities.
                    (B) Grant amount.--The amount of a grant made under 
                the program established under subparagraph (A) shall be 
                not more than $3,000,000.
                    (C) First award.--The first grant made by the Bank 
                under the program established under subparagraph (A) 
                shall be to an entity, not less than 60 percent of the 
                members or stockholders of which are Black farmers or 
                ranchers.
            (5) Technical assistance.--The Bank shall establish a 
        program to provide technical assistance to eligible entities, 
        including assistance in obtaining--
                    (A) approval from the National Credit Union 
                Administration Board under section 104 of the Federal 
                Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1754); and
                    (B) certification from the Community Development 
                Financial Institutions Fund established under section 
                104(a) of the Community Development Banking and 
                Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4701 et 
                seq.).
            (6) Funding.--
                    (A) In general.--There are appropriated to the 
                Bank, out of any amounts in the Treasury not otherwise 
                appropriated, $1,000,000,000 to carry out this 
                subsection--
                            (i) which shall remain available until 
                        expended; and
                            (ii) of which--
                                    (I) not less than $50,000,000 shall 
                                be used to make grants under the 
                                program established under paragraph 
                                (4); and
                                    (II) not less than $50,000,000 
                                shall be used to provide technical 
                                assistance under paragraph (5).
                    (B) Emergency designation.--
                            (i) In general.--The amounts provided under 
                        this paragraph are designated as an emergency 
                        requirement pursuant to section 4(g) of the 
                        Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 
                        933(g)).
                            (ii) Designation in senate.--In the Senate, 
                        this subsection is designated as an emergency 
                        requirement pursuant to section 4112(a) of H. 
                        Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress), the concurrent 
                        resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.
    (b) CFPB Authority To Investigate Claims of Discrimination by Farm 
Credit System Institutions.--Section 5.31 of the Farm Credit Act of 
1971 (12 U.S.C. 2267) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``The Farm'' and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
Farm''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.--The Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection shall have enforcement authority over 
institutions and institution-affiliated parties with respect to claims 
of discrimination.''.
    (c) Establishment of Funding Goals.--The Secretary shall establish 
goals for the funding of programs to address racial disparities in the 
recipients of assistance provided by the Department of Agriculture, 
including the programs under section 2501 of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), to ensure that 
those programs directly support socially disadvantaged farmers and 
ranchers.
    (d) Public Awareness Campaigns.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) conduct public awareness campaigns for socially 
                disadvantaged farmers and ranchers relating to programs 
                available for socially disadvantaged farmers and 
                ranchers through the Department of Agriculture; and
                    (B) use 50 percent of the amount made available 
                under paragraph (2) to provide funding for community 
                organizations with history of working with socially 
                disadvantaged farmers and ranchers to conduct 
                community-based outreach.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $50,000,000.

SEC. 403. ADDITIONAL CREDIT ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Refinancing of Debt With Farm Loans.--
            (1) Purposes of farm ownership loans.--Section 303(a)(1) of 
        the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
        1923(a)(1)) is amended by striking subparagraph (E) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(E) refinancing indebtedness.''.
            (2) Purposes of operating loans.--Section 312(a) of the 
        Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1942(a)) 
        is amended by striking paragraph (9) and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(9) refinancing the indebtedness of a borrower; or''.
    (b) Removal of Eligibility Restriction Based on Previous Debt 
Write-Down or Other Loss.--Section 373 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008h) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and subsection (d)'' 
                after ``paragraph (2)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)(A)--
                            (i) by striking clause (i);
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``chapters 
                        11, 12, or 13 of Title 11 of the'' and 
                        inserting ``chapter 11, 12, or 13 of title 
                        11,''; and
                            (iii) by redesignating clauses (ii) and 
                        (iii) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively; 
                        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Prohibition on Eligibility Restriction Based on Debt Write-
Down or Other Loss.--The Secretary shall not restrict the eligibility 
of a borrower for a farm ownership or operating loan under subtitle A 
or B based on a previous debt write-down or other loss to the 
Secretary.''.
    (c) Authorization for Loans.--Section 346(b)(1) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1994(b)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``$10,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023'' 
        and inserting ``$20,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 
        through 2023''; and
            (2) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(A) $10,000,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
                loans under subtitle A; and
                    ``(B) $10,000,000,000 shall be for operating loans 
                under subtitle B.''.
    (d) Loan Forgiveness for Settlements Applicants in Pigford I.--
            (1) Definition of covered borrower.--In this subsection, 
        the term ``covered borrower'' means a Black farmer or rancher 
        that--
                    (A) submitted a claim under the settlement 
                agreement and consent decree in Pigford v. Glickman, 
                185 F.R.D. 82 (D.D.C. 1999); and
                    (B) as of the date of enactment of this Act, has 
                indebtedness on a loan made or guaranteed by the 
                Secretary.
            (2) Loan forgiveness.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) forgive the indebtedness of a covered borrower 
                on a loan made by the Secretary; and
                    (B) require a lender of a loan guaranteed by the 
                Secretary for a covered borrower to forgive the 
                indebtedness of that covered borrower on that loan.
            (3) Tax treatment.--For purposes of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986, no amount shall be includible in gross income of 
        a covered borrower by reason of the receipt of any loan 
        forgiveness or payment under this subsection.
    (e) Farm Service Agency Loan Eligibility for Heirs With Undivided 
Property Ownership Interests.--Subtitle D of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act is amended by inserting after section 331F (7 
U.S.C. 1981f) the following:

``SEC. 331G. ELIGIBILITY OF TENANTS IN COMMON FOR LOANS.

    ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a tenant in common 
shall be eligible for a direct or guaranteed farm ownership loan under 
subtitle A, a direct or guaranteed operating loan under subtitle B, or 
a direct or guaranteed emergency loan under subtitle C if the tenant in 
common submits to the Secretary an agreement--
            ``(1) entered into by each person that owns a property 
        interest in or to the applicable property; and
            ``(2) that includes--
                    ``(A) clear identification of--
                            ``(i) the owners of the property, as of the 
                        date on which the agreement is submitted; and
                            ``(ii) the percentages of ownership of each 
                        owner described in clause (i);
                    ``(B) identification of the property and a 
                description of the proposed use of the property;
                    ``(C) a process for payment of expenses and 
                application and disbursement of any proceeds or profits 
                among the owners of the property;
                    ``(D) appointment of a lead responsible person for 
                farm management;
                    ``(E) a dispute resolution process; and
                    ``(F) a buy-out provision that allows an heir of 
                the property to sell the property interest of the heir 
                in and to the property.''.

SEC. 404. FORECLOSURE MORATORIUM.

    Effective during the period beginning on the date of enactment of 
this Act and ending on the date that is 1 year after the date on which 
the public health emergency declared by the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 247d) on January 31, 2020, with respect to COVID-19 is lifted, 
there shall be a moratorium on the Department of Agriculture 
instituting or completing any foreclosure action on a loan secured by a 
first or subordinate lien on real property that includes a residence 
and farmland.

                  TITLE V--AGRICULTURAL SYSTEM REFORMS

       Subtitle A--Amendments to Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921

SEC. 501. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 2(a) of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 
182(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (8), by striking ``for slaughter'' and all 
        that follows through ``of such poultry'' and inserting ``under 
        a poultry growing arrangement, regardless of whether the 
        poultry is owned by that person or another person'';
            (2) in paragraph (9), by striking ``and cares for live 
        poultry for delivery, in accord with another's instructions, 
        for slaughter'' and inserting ``or cares for live poultry in 
        accordance with the instructions of another person'';
            (3) in each of paragraphs (1) through (9), by striking the 
        semicolon at the end and inserting a period;
            (4) in paragraph (10)--
                    (A) by striking ``for the purpose of either 
                slaughtering it or selling it for slaughter by 
                another''; and
                    (B) by striking ``; and'' at the end and inserting 
                a period; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(15) Formula price.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `formula price' means 
                any price term that establishes a base from which a 
                purchase price is calculated on the basis of a price 
                that will not be determined or reported until a date 
                that is after the date on which the forward price is 
                established.
                    ``(B) Exclusion.--The term `formula price' does not 
                include--
                            ``(i) any price term that establishes a 
                        base from which a purchase price is calculated 
                        on the basis of a futures market price; or
                            ``(ii) any adjustment to the base for 
                        quality, grade, or other factors relating to 
                        the value of livestock or livestock products 
                        that are readily verifiable market factors and 
                        are outside the control of the packer.
            ``(16) Forward contract.--The term `forward contract' means 
        an oral or written contract for the purchase of livestock that 
        provides for the delivery of the livestock to a packer at a 
        date that is more than 7 days after the date on which the 
        contract is entered into, without regard to whether the 
        contract is for--
                    ``(A) a specified lot of livestock; or
                    ``(B) a specified number of livestock over a 
                certain period of time.''.

SEC. 502. UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.

    (a) In General.--Section 202 of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 
1921 (7 U.S.C. 192) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (a) through (f) and (g) as 
        paragraphs (1) through (6) and (10), respectively, and 
        indenting appropriately;
            (2) by striking the section designation and all that 
        follows through ``It shall be'' in the matter preceding 
        paragraph (1) (as so redesignated) and inserting the following:

``SEC. 202. UNLAWFUL ACTS.

    ``(a) In General.--It shall be'';
            (3) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) (as so 
                redesignated), by striking ``to:'' and inserting ``to 
                do any of the following:'';
                    (B) in each of paragraphs (1) through (6) (as so 
                redesignated), by striking ``; or'' each place it 
                appears and inserting a period;
                    (C) in paragraph (6) (as so redesignated)--
                            (i) by striking ``(1)'' and inserting 
                        ``(A)'';
                            (ii) by striking ``(2)'' and inserting 
                        ``(B)''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``(3)'' and inserting 
                        ``(C)'';
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
            ``(7) Use, in effectuating any sale of livestock, a forward 
        contract that--
                    ``(A) does not contain a firm base price that may 
                be equated to a fixed dollar amount on the date on 
                which the forward contract is entered into;
                    ``(B) is not offered for bid in an open, public 
                manner under which--
                            ``(i) buyers and sellers have the 
                        opportunity to participate in the bid;
                            ``(ii) more than 1 blind bid is solicited; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) buyers and sellers may witness bids 
                        that are made and accepted;
                    ``(C) is based on a formula price; or
                    ``(D) provides for the sale of livestock in a 
                quantity in excess of--
                            ``(i) in the case of cattle, 40 cattle;
                            ``(ii) in the case of swine, 30 swine; and
                            ``(iii) in the case of another type of 
                        livestock, a comparable quantity of that type 
                        of livestock, as determined by the Secretary.
            ``(8) Own or feed livestock directly, through a subsidiary, 
        or through an arrangement that gives a packer operational, 
        managerial, or supervisory control over the livestock, or over 
        the farming operation that produces the livestock, to such an 
        extent that the producer of the livestock is not materially 
        participating in the management of the operation with respect 
        to the production of the livestock, except that this paragraph 
        shall not apply to--
                    ``(A) an arrangement entered into not more than 7 
                business days before slaughter of the livestock by a 
                packer, a person acting through the packer, or a person 
                that directly or indirectly controls, or is controlled 
                by or under common control with, the packer;
                    ``(B) a cooperative or entity owned by a 
                cooperative, if a majority of the ownership interest in 
                the cooperative is held by active cooperative members 
                that--
                            ``(i) own, feed, or control the livestock; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) provide the livestock to the 
                        cooperative for slaughter;
                    ``(C) a packer that is not required to report to 
                the Secretary on each reporting day (as defined in 
                section 212 of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 
                (7 U.S.C. 1635a)) information on the price and quantity 
                of livestock purchased by the packer; or
                    ``(D) a packer that owns only 1 livestock 
                processing plant.
            ``(9) Take any action that adversely affects or is likely 
        to adversely affect competition, regardless of whether there is 
        a business justification for the action.''; and
                    (E) in paragraph (10) (as so redesignated), by 
                striking ``subdivision (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e)'' and 
                inserting ``paragraphs (1) through (9)''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Unfair, Discriminatory, and Deceptive Practices and 
Devices.--Acts by a packer, swine contractor, or live poultry dealer 
that violate subsection (a)(1) include the following:
            ``(1) Refusal to provide, on the request of a livestock 
        producer, swine production contract grower, or poultry grower 
        with which the packer, swine contractor, or live poultry dealer 
        has a marketing or delivery contract, the relevant statistical 
        information and data used to determine the compensation paid to 
        the livestock producer, swine production contract grower, or 
        poultry grower, as applicable, under the contract, including--
                    ``(A) feed conversion rates by house, lot, or pen;
                    ``(B) feed analysis;
                    ``(C) breeder history;
                    ``(D) quality grade;
                    ``(E) yield grade; and
                    ``(F) delivery volume for any certified branding 
                program (such as programs for angus beef or certified 
                grassfed or Berkshire pork).
            ``(2) Conduct or action that limits or attempts to limit by 
        contract the legal rights and remedies of a livestock producer, 
        swine production contract grower, or poultry grower, including 
        the right--
                    ``(A) to a trial by jury, unless the livestock 
                producer, swine production contract grower, or poultry 
                grower, as applicable, is voluntarily bound by an 
                arbitration provision in a contract;
                    ``(B) to pursue all damages available under 
                applicable law; and
                    ``(C) to seek an award of attorneys' fees, if 
                available under applicable law.
            ``(3) Termination of a poultry growing arrangement or swine 
        production contract with no basis other than an allegation that 
        the poultry grower or swine production contract grower failed 
        to comply with an applicable law, rule, or regulation.
            ``(4) A representation, omission, or practice that is 
        likely to mislead a livestock producer, swine production 
        contract grower, or poultry grower regarding a material 
        condition or term in a contract or business transaction.
    ``(c) Undue or Unreasonable Preferences, Advantages, Prejudices, 
and Disadvantages.--
            ``(1) In general.--Acts by a packer, swine contractor, or 
        live poultry dealer that violate subsection (a)(2) include the 
        following:
                    ``(A) A retaliatory action (including coercion or 
                intimidation) or the threat of retaliatory action--
                            ``(i) in connection with the execution, 
                        termination, extension, or renewal of a 
                        contract or agreement with a livestock 
                        producer, swine production contract grower, or 
                        poultry grower aimed to discourage the exercise 
                        of the rights of the livestock producer, swine 
                        production contract grower, or poultry grower 
                        under this Act or any other law; and
                            ``(ii) in response to lawful communication 
                        (including as described in paragraph (2)), 
                        association, or assertion of rights by a 
                        livestock producer, swine production contract 
                        grower, or poultry grower.
                    ``(B) Use of the tournament system for poultry as 
                described in paragraph (3).
            ``(2) Lawful communication described.--A lawful 
        communication referred to in paragraph (1)(A)(ii) includes--
                    ``(A) a communication with officials of a Federal 
                agency or Members of Congress;
                    ``(B) any lawful disclosure that demonstrates a 
                reasonable belief of a violation of this Act or any 
                other law; and
                    ``(C) any other communication that assists in 
                carrying out the purposes of this Act.
            ``(3) Use of tournament system for poultry.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), a 
                live poultry dealer shall be in violation of subsection 
                (a)(2) if the live poultry dealer determines the 
                formula for calculating the pay of a poultry grower in 
                a tournament group by comparing the performance of the 
                birds of other poultry growers in the group using 
                factors outside the control of the poultry grower and 
                within the control of the live poultry dealer.
                    ``(B) Exception.--Under subparagraph (A), a live 
                poultry dealer shall not be found in violation of 
                subsection (a)(2) if the live poultry dealer 
                demonstrates through clear and convincing evidence that 
                the inputs and services described in subparagraph (C) 
                that were used in the comparative evaluation were 
                substantially the same in quality, quantity, and 
                timing, as applicable, for all poultry growers in the 
                tournament group.
                    ``(C) Inputs and services described.--The inputs 
                and services referred to in subparagraph (B) include, 
                with respect to poultry growers in the same tournament 
                group--
                            ``(i) the quantity, breed, sex, and age of 
                        chicks delivered to each poultry grower;
                            ``(ii) the breed and age of the breeder 
                        flock from which chicks are drawn for each 
                        poultry grower;
                            ``(iii) the quality, type (such as starter 
                        feed), and quantity of feed delivered to each 
                        poultry grower;
                            ``(iv) the quality of and access to 
                        medications for the birds of each poultry 
                        grower;
                            ``(v) the number of birds in a flock 
                        delivered to each poultry grower;
                            ``(vi) the timing of the pick-up of birds 
                        for processing (including the age of the birds 
                        and the number of days that the birds are in 
                        the care of the poultry grower) for each 
                        poultry grower;
                            ``(vii) the death loss of birds during 
                        pick-up, transport, and time spent at the 
                        processing plant for each poultry grower;
                            ``(viii) condemnations of parts of birds 
                        due to actions in processing for each poultry 
                        grower;
                            ``(ix) condemnations of whole birds due to 
                        the fault of the poultry grower;
                            ``(x) the death loss of birds due to the 
                        fault of the poultry grower;
                            ``(xi) the stated reasons for the cause of 
                        the death losses and condemnations described in 
                        clauses (vii) through (x);
                            ``(xii) the type and classification of each 
                        poultry grower; and
                            ``(xiii) any other input or service that 
                        may have an impact on feed conversion to weight 
                        gain efficiency or the life span of the birds 
                        of each poultry grower.
    ``(d) Harm to Competition Not Required.--In determining whether an 
act, device, or conduct is a violation under paragraph (1) or (2) of 
subsection (a), a finding that the act, device, or conduct adversely 
affected or is likely to adversely affect competition is not 
required.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), paragraph (8) of 
        section 202(a) of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 
        U.S.C. 192) (as designated by subsection (a)(2)) shall take 
        effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Transition rules.--In the case of a packer that, on the 
        date of enactment of this Act, owns, feeds, or controls 
        livestock intended for slaughter in violation of paragraph (8) 
        of section 202(a) of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 
        U.S.C. 192) (as designated by subsection (a)(2)), that 
        paragraph shall take effect--
                    (A) in the case of a packer of swine, beginning on 
                the date that is 18 months after the date of enactment 
                of this Act; and
                    (B) in the case of a packer of any other type of 
                livestock, beginning not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, as determined by the 
                Secretary.

SEC. 503. SPOT MARKET PURCHASES OF LIVESTOCK BY PACKERS.

    The Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, is amended by inserting after 
section 202 (7 U.S.C. 192) the following:

``SEC. 202A. SPOT MARKET PURCHASES OF LIVESTOCK BY PACKERS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Covered packer.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `covered packer' means 
                a packer that is required under subtitle B of the 
                Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1635 et 
                seq.) to report to the Secretary each reporting day 
                information on the price and quantity of livestock 
                purchased by the packer.
                    ``(B) Exclusion.--The term `covered packer' does 
                not include a packer that owns only 1 livestock 
                processing plant.
            ``(2) Nonaffiliated producer.--The term `nonaffiliated 
        producer' means a producer of livestock--
                    ``(A) that sells livestock to a packer;
                    ``(B) that has less than 1 percent equity interest 
                in the packer;
                    ``(C) that has no officers, directors, employees, 
                or owners that are officers, directors, employees, or 
                owners of the packer;
                    ``(D) that has no fiduciary responsibility to the 
                packer; and
                    ``(E) in which the packer has no equity interest.
            ``(3) Spot market sale.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `spot market sale' 
                means a purchase and sale of livestock by a packer from 
                a producer--
                            ``(i) under an agreement that specifies a 
                        firm base price that may be equated with a 
                        fixed dollar amount on the date the agreement 
                        is entered into;
                            ``(ii) under which the livestock are 
                        slaughtered not more than 7 days after the date 
                        on which the agreement is entered into; and
                            ``(iii) under circumstances in which a 
                        reasonable competitive bidding opportunity 
                        exists on the date on which the agreement is 
                        entered into.
                    ``(B) Reasonable competitive bidding opportunity.--
                For the purposes of subparagraph (A)(iii), a reasonable 
                competitive bidding opportunity shall be considered to 
                exist if--
                            ``(i) no written or oral agreement 
                        precludes the producer from soliciting or 
                        receiving bids from other packers; and
                            ``(ii) no circumstance, custom, or practice 
                        exists that--
                                    ``(I) establishes the existence of 
                                an implied contract (as determined in 
                                accordance with the Uniform Commercial 
                                Code); and
                                    ``(II) precludes the producer from 
                                soliciting or receiving bids from other 
                                packers.
    ``(b) General Rule.--Of the quantity of livestock that is 
slaughtered by a covered packer during each reporting day in each 
plant, the covered packer shall slaughter not less than the applicable 
percentage specified in subsection (c) of the quantity through spot 
market sales from nonaffiliated producers.
    ``(c) Applicable Percentages.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        applicable percentage shall be 50 percent.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--In the case of a covered packer that 
        reported to the Secretary in the 2018 annual report that more 
        than 60 percent of the livestock of the covered packer were 
        committed procurement livestock, the applicable percentage 
        shall be the greater of--
                    ``(A) the difference between the percentage of 
                committed procurement so reported and 100 percent; and
                    ``(B)(i) during each of calendar years 2020 and 
                2021, 20 percent;
                    ``(ii) during each of calendar years 2022 and 2023, 
                30 percent; and
                    ``(iii) during calendar year 2024 and each calendar 
                year thereafter, 50 percent.
    ``(d) Nonpreemption.--This section does not preempt any requirement 
of a State or political subdivision of a State that requires a covered 
packer to purchase on the spot market a greater percentage of the 
livestock purchased by the covered packer than is required under this 
section.''.

SEC. 504. INVESTIGATION OF LIVE POULTRY DEALERS.

    (a) Administrative Enforcement Authority Over Live Poultry 
Dealers.--Sections 203, 204, and 205 of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 
1921 (7 U.S.C. 193, 194, 195) are amended by inserting ``, live poultry 
dealer,'' after ``packer'' each place it appears.
    (b) Authority To Request Temporary Injunction or Restraining 
Order.--Section 408(a) of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 
U.S.C. 228a(a)) is amended by inserting ``or poultry care'' after ``on 
account of poultry''.
    (c) Violations by Live Poultry Dealers.--Section 411 of the Packers 
and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 228b-2) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the first sentence, by striking 
        ``any provision of section 207 or section 410 of''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), in the first sentence, by striking 
        ``any provisions of section 207 or section 410'' and inserting 
        ``any provision''.

SEC. 505. AWARD OF ATTORNEY FEES.

    Section 204 of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 194) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Attorney's Fee.--The court shall award a reasonable 
attorney's fee as part of the costs to a prevailing plaintiff in a 
civil action under this section.''.

SEC. 506. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Section 203 of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 
193) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``he shall cause'' and inserting 
                ``the Secretary shall cause''; and
                    (B) by striking ``his charges'' and inserting ``the 
                charges'';
            (2) in subsection (b), in the first sentence, by striking 
        ``he shall make a report in writing in which he shall state his 
        findings'' and inserting ``the Secretary shall make a report in 
        writing in which the Secretary shall state the findings of the 
        Secretary''; and
            (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``he'' and inserting 
        ``the Secretary''.
    (b) Section 204 of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 
194) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``he has his'' and 
        inserting ``the packer, live poultry dealer, or swine 
        contractor has the'';
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``his officers, 
        directors, agents, and employees'' and inserting ``the 
        officers, directors, agents, and employees of the packer, live 
        poultry dealer, or swine packer'';
            (3) in subsection (f), in the second sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``his findings'' and inserting 
                ``the findings of the Secretary''; and
                    (B) by striking ``he'' and inserting ``the 
                Secretary''; and
            (4) in subsection (g), by striking ``his officers, 
        directors, agents, and employees'' and inserting ``the 
        officers, directors, agents, and employees of the packer, live 
        poultry dealer, or swine packer''.

              Subtitle B--Local Agriculture Market Program

SEC. 511. LOCAL AGRICULTURE MARKET PROGRAM.

    Section 210A(i)(1) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 
U.S.C. 1627c(i)(1)) is amended by striking ``2019 and'' and inserting 
``2019, and $500,000,000 for''.

         Subtitle C--Conservation and Renewable Energy Programs

SEC. 521. CONSERVATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    Section 6 of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 
U.S.C. 590f) is amended--
            (1) by striking the section designation and heading and all 
        that follows through ``There is'' in subsection (a) and 
        inserting the following:

``SEC. 6. FUNDING; CONSERVATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FUND.

    ``(a) Funding.--
            ``(1) Mandatory funding.--Of the funds of the Commodity 
        Credit Corporation, the Secretary of Agriculture shall use to 
        carry out this Act $2,100,000,000 for each fiscal year.
            ``(2) Authorization of appropriations.--There are''; and
            (2) in the undesignated matter following paragraph (2) (as 
        so designated) of subsection (a), by striking 
        ``Appropriations'' and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Availability of appropriations for nursery stock.--
        Appropriations''.

SEC. 522. CONSERVATION STEWARDSHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) Supplemental Payments for Climate Stewardship Practices.--
Section 1240L(d) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-
24(d)) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Rotations and 
        Advanced Grazing Management'' and inserting ``Rotations, 
        Advanced Grazing Management, and Climate Stewardship 
        Practices'';
            (2) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as 
                subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                following:
                    ``(B) Climate stewardship practice.--The term 
                `climate stewardship practice' means any of the 
                following practices:
                            ``(i) Alley cropping.
                            ``(ii) Biochar incorporation.
                            ``(iii) Conservation cover.
                            ``(iv) Conservation crop rotation.
                            ``(v) Contour buffer strips.
                            ``(vi) Contour farming.
                            ``(vii) Cover crops.
                            ``(viii) Critical area planting.
                            ``(ix) Cross wind trap strips.
                            ``(x) Field borders.
                            ``(xi) Filter strips.
                            ``(xii) Forage and biomass planting, 
                        including the use of native prairie seed 
                        mixtures.
                            ``(xiii) Forest stand improvements.
                            ``(xiv) Grassed waterways.
                            ``(xv) Hedgerow planting.
                            ``(xvi) Herbaceous wind barriers.
                            ``(xvii) Multistory cropping.
                            ``(xviii) Nutrient management, including 
                        nitrogen stewardship activities.
                            ``(xix) Prescribed grazing.
                            ``(xx) Range planting.
                            ``(xxi) Residue and tillage management with 
                        no till.
                            ``(xxii) Residue and tillage management 
                        with reduced till.
                            ``(xxiii) Riparian forest buffers.
                            ``(xxiv) Riparian herbaceous buffers.
                            ``(xxv) Silvopasture establishment.
                            ``(xxvi) Stripcropping.
                            ``(xxvii) Tree and shrub establishment, 
                        including planting for a high rate of carbon 
                        sequestration.
                            ``(xxviii) Upland wildlife habitat.
                            ``(xxix) Vegetative barriers.
                            ``(xxx) Wetland restoration.
                            ``(xxxi) Windbreak renovation.
                            ``(xxxii) Windbreaks and shelterbelts.
                            ``(xxxiii) Woody residue treatment.
                            ``(xxxiv) Any other vegetative or 
                        management conservation activity that 
                        significantly--
                                    ``(I) reduces greenhouse gas 
                                emissions;
                                    ``(II) increases carbon 
                                sequestration; or
                                    ``(III) enhances resilience to 
                                increased weather volatility.'';
            (3) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) conservation activities relating to climate 
                stewardship practices.''; and
            (4) in paragraph (3), by striking ``rotations or advanced 
        grazing management'' and inserting ``rotations, advanced 
        grazing management, or conservation activities relating to 
        climate stewardship practices''.
    (b) Payment Limitations.--Section 1240L(f) of the Food Security Act 
of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-24(f)) is amended by striking ``fiscal years 
2019 through 2023'' and inserting ``the period of fiscal years 2019 
through 2023, the period of fiscal years 2024 through 2028, or the 
period of fiscal years 2029 through 2033''.
    (c) Funding.--Section 1241 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
U.S.C. 3841) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``2023'' and inserting ``2030''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(B)--
                            (i) in clause (iii), by striking 
                        ``$750,000,000'' and inserting 
                        ``$2,750,000,000'';
                            (ii) in clause (iv)--
                                    (I) by striking ``$800,000,000'' 
                                and inserting ``$2,800,000,000''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``and'' at the 
                                end;
                            (iii) in clause (v)--
                                    (I) by striking ``$1,000,000,000'' 
                                and inserting ``$3,000,000,000''; and
                                    (II) by striking the period at the 
                                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iv) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(vi) $3,000,000,000 for each of fiscal 
                        years 2024 through 2030.'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``2023'' and inserting 
        ``2030''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k) Funding for Climate Stewardship Practices.--Of the funds made 
available under subsection (a)(3)(B), the Secretary shall set aside 
$2,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030 to be used 
exclusively to enroll in the conservation stewardship program contracts 
comprised predominantly of conservation activities relating to climate 
stewardship practices (as defined in section 1240L(d)(1)) or bundles of 
practices comprised predominantly of conservation activities relating 
to climate stewardship practices (as so defined).''.

SEC. 523. RURAL ENERGY FOR AMERICA PROGRAM.

    Section 9007 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 
(7 U.S.C. 8107) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(3)(A), by striking ``25'' and 
        inserting ``40''; and
            (2) in subsection (f)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``for fiscal'' 
                and all that follows through the period at the end and 
                inserting ``for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2020; 
                and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2021 and each 
                fiscal year thereafter.''.

SEC. 524. CONSERVATION AND RENEWABLE ENERGY PROGRAMS PRIORITY.

    Each socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher, including each 
eligible Black individual that receives a land grant under section 
203(a)(2), shall be given priority--
            (1) for conservation technical assistance under the Soil 
        Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590a et 
        seq.);
            (2) under the conservation stewardship program under 
        subchapter B of that chapter (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-21 et seq.); and
            (3) under the Rural Energy for America Program established 
        under section 9007 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment 
        Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
