<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2483 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]






                                                       Calendar No. 546
110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2483

To authorize certain programs and activities in the Forest Service, the 
Department of the Interior, and the Department of Energy, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           December 13, 2007

 Mr. Bingaman introduced the following bill; which was read the first 
                                  time

                           December 14, 2007

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize certain programs and activities in the Forest Service, the 
Department of the Interior, and the Department of Energy, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``National Forests, 
Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation Projects Authorization Act of 
2007''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
                 TITLE I--FOREST SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 101. Wild Sky Wilderness.
Sec. 102. Designation of national recreational trail, Willamette 
                            National Forest, Oregon, in honor of Jim 
                            Weaver, a former Member of the House of 
                            Representatives.
           TITLE II--BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 201. Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station.
Sec. 202. Nevada National Guard land conveyance, Clark County, Nevada.
            TITLE III--NATIONAL PARK SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS

                   Subtitle A--Cooperative Agreements

Sec. 301. Cooperative agreements for national park natural resource 
                            protection.
                    Subtitle B--Boundary Adjustments

Sec. 311. Carl Sandburg Home National Historic Site boundary 
                            adjustment.
Sec. 312. Lowell National Historical Park boundary adjustment.
Sec. 313. Mesa Verde National Park Boundary expansion.
                          Subtitle C--Studies

Sec. 321. National Park System special resource study, Newtonia Civil 
                            War Battlefields, Missouri.
Sec. 322. National Park Service study regarding the Soldiers' Memorial 
                            Military Museum.
Sec. 323. Wolf House study.
Sec. 324. Space Shuttle Columbia study.
Sec. 325. Cesar E. Chavez Study.
Sec. 326. Taunton, Massachusetts, special resource study.
            Subtitle D--Memorials, Commissions, and Museums

Sec. 331. Commemorative work to honor Brigadier General Francis Marion 
                            and his family.
Sec. 332. Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission.
Sec. 333. Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National 
                            Museum of the American Latino.
Sec. 334. Hudson-Fulton-Champlain Quadricentennial Commemoration 
                            Commission.
Sec. 335. Sense of Congress regarding the designation of the National 
                            Museum of Wildlife Art of the United 
                            States.
Sec. 336. Redesignation of Ellis Island Library.
                     Subtitle E--Trails and Rivers

Sec. 341. Authorization and administration of Star-Spangled Banner 
                            National Historic Trail.
Sec. 342. Land conveyance, Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail, 
                            Nebraska.
Sec. 343. Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail extension.
Sec. 344. Wild and Scenic River designation, Eightmile River, 
                            Connecticut.
     Subtitle F--Denali National Park and Alaska Railroad Exchange

Sec. 351. Denali National Park and Alaska Railroad Corporation 
                            exchange.
Subtitle G--National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Amendments

Sec. 361. Authorizing appropriations for specific purposes.
                Subtitle H--Grand Canyon Subcontractors

Sec. 371. Definitions.
Sec. 372. Authorization.
                   TITLE IV--NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS

   Subtitle A--Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area

Sec. 401. Purposes.
Sec. 402. Definitions.
Sec. 403. Designation of the Journey Through Hallowed Ground National 
                            Heritage Area.
Sec. 404. Management plan.
Sec. 405. Evaluation; report.
Sec. 406. Local coordinating entity.
Sec. 407. Relationship to other Federal agencies.
Sec. 408. Private property and regulatory protections.
Sec. 409. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 410. Use of Federal funds from other sources.
Sec. 411. Sunset for grants and other assistance.
            Subtitle B--Niagara Falls National Heritage Area

Sec. 421. Purposes.
Sec. 422. Definitions.
Sec. 423. Designation of the Niagara Falls National Heritage Area.
Sec. 424. Management plan.
Sec. 425. Evaluation; report.
Sec. 426. Local coordinating entity.
Sec. 427. Niagara Falls Heritage Area Commission.
Sec. 428. Relationship to other Federal agencies.
Sec. 429. Private property and regulatory protections.
Sec. 430. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 431. Use of Federal funds from other sources.
Sec. 432. Sunset for grants and other assistance.
           Subtitle C--Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area

Sec. 441. Purposes.
Sec. 442. Definitions.
Sec. 443. Designation of Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area.
Sec. 444. Management plan.
Sec. 445. Evaluation; report.
Sec. 446. Local coordinating entity.
Sec. 447. Relationship to other Federal agencies.
Sec. 448. Private property and regulatory protections.
Sec. 449. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 450. Use of Federal funds from other sources.
Sec. 451. Sunset for grants and other assistance.
       Subtitle D--Authorization Extensions and Viability Studies

Sec. 461. Extensions of authorized appropriations.
Sec. 462. Evaluation and report.
            Subtitle E--Technical Corrections and Additions

Sec. 471. National Coal Heritage Area technical corrections.
Sec. 472. Rivers of steel national heritage area addition.
Sec. 473. South Carolina National Heritage Corridor addition.
Sec. 474. Ohio and Erie Canal National Heritage Corridor technical 
                            corrections.
Sec. 475. New Jersey Coastal Heritage trail route extension of 
                            authorization.
                          Subtitle F--Studies

Sec. 481. Columbia-Pacific National Heritage Area study.
Sec. 482. Study of sites relating to Abraham Lincoln in Kentucky.
  TITLE V--BUREAU OF RECLAMATION AND UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY 
                             AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 501. Alaska water resources study.
Sec. 502. Renegotiation of payment schedule, Redwood Valley County 
                            Water District.
Sec. 503. American River Pump Station Project transfer.
Sec. 504. Arthur V. Watkins Dam enlargement.
Sec. 505. New Mexico water planning assistance.
Sec. 506. Conveyance of certain buildings and lands of the Yakima 
                            Project, Washington.
Sec. 507. Conjunctive use of surface and groundwater in Juab County, 
                            Utah.
Sec. 508. Early repayment of A & B Irrigation District construction 
                            costs.
Sec. 509. Oregon water resources.
Sec. 510. Republican River Basin feasibility study.
Sec. 511. Eastern Municipal Water District.
Sec. 512. Inland Empire and Cucamonga Valley recycling projects.
Sec. 513. Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program.
Sec. 514. Bureau of Reclamation site security.
             TITLE VI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 601. Energy technology transfer.
Sec. 602. Amendments to the Steel and Aluminum Energy Conservation and 
                            Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988.
                  TITLE VII--NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS

              Subtitle A--Immigration, Security, and Labor

Sec. 701. Statement of congressional intent.
Sec. 702. Immigration reform for the Commonwealth.
Sec. 703. Further amendments to Public Law 94-241.
Sec. 704. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 705. Effective date.
             Subtitle B--Northern Mariana Islands Delegate

Sec. 711. Delegate to House of Representatives from Commonwealth of the 
                            Northern Mariana Islands.
Sec. 712. Election of Delegate.
Sec. 713. Qualifications for Office of Delegate.
Sec. 714. Determination of election procedure.
Sec. 715. Compensation, privileges, and immunities.
Sec. 716. Lack of effect on covenant.
Sec. 717. Definition.
Sec. 718. Conforming amendments regarding appointments to military 
                            service academies by Delegate from the 
                            Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                            Islands.
          TITLE VIII--COMPACTS OF FREE ASSOCIATION AMENDMENTS

Sec. 801. Approval of Agreements.
Sec. 802. Funds to facilitate Federal activities.
Sec. 803. Conforming amendment.
Sec. 804. Clarifications regarding Palau.
Sec. 805. Availability of legal services.
Sec. 806. Technical amendments.
Sec. 807. Transmission of videotape programming.
Sec. 808. Palau road maintenance.
Sec. 809. Clarification of tax-free status of trust funds.
Sec. 810. Transfer of naval vessels to certain foreign recipients.

                 TITLE I--FOREST SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 101. WILD SKY WILDERNESS.

    (a) Additions to the National Wilderness Preservation System.--
            (1) Additions.--The following Federal lands in the State of 
        Washington are hereby designated as wilderness and, therefore, 
        as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System: 
        certain lands which comprise approximately 106,000 acres, as 
        generally depicted on a map entitled ``Wild Sky Wilderness 
        Proposal'' and dated February 6, 2007, which shall be known as 
        the ``Wild Sky Wilderness''.
            (2) Map and legal descriptions.--As soon as practicable 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall file a map and a legal description for the 
        wilderness area designated under this section with the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives. 
        The map and description shall have the same force and effect as 
        if included in this section, except that the Secretary of 
        Agriculture may correct clerical and typographical errors in 
        the legal description and map. The map and legal description 
        shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        office of the Chief of the Forest Service, Department of 
        Agriculture.
    (b) Administration Provisions.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Subject to valid existing rights, lands 
                designated as wilderness by this section shall be 
                managed by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance 
                with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and 
                this section, except that, with respect to any 
                wilderness areas designated by this section, any 
                reference in the Wilderness Act to the effective date 
                of the Wilderness Act shall be deemed to be a reference 
                to the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (B) To fulfill the purposes of this section and the 
                Wilderness Act and to achieve administrative 
                efficiencies, the Secretary of Agriculture may manage 
                the area designated by this section as a comprehensive 
                part of the larger complex of adjacent and nearby 
                wilderness areas.
            (2) New trails.--
                    (A) The Secretary of Agriculture shall consult with 
                interested parties and shall establish a trail plan for 
                Forest Service lands in order to develop--
                            (i) a system of hiking and equestrian 
                        trails within the wilderness designated by this 
                        section in a manner consistent with the 
                        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and
                            (ii) a system of trails adjacent to or to 
                        provide access to the wilderness designated by 
                        this section.
                    (B) Within 2 years after the date of enactment of 
                this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall complete a 
                report on the implementation of the trail plan required 
                under this section. This report shall include the 
                identification of priority trails for development.
            (3) Repeater site.--Within the Wild Sky Wilderness, the 
        Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to use helicopter access 
        to construct and maintain a joint Forest Service and Snohomish 
        County telecommunications repeater site, in compliance with a 
        Forest Service approved communications site plan, for the 
        purposes of improving communications for safety, health, and 
        emergency services.
            (4) Float plane access.--As provided by section 4(d)(1) of 
        the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the use of 
        floatplanes on Lake Isabel, where such use has already become 
        established, shall be permitted to continue subject to such 
        reasonable restrictions as the Secretary of Agriculture 
        determines to be desirable.
            (5) Evergreen mountain lookout.--The designation under this 
        section shall not preclude the operation and maintenance of the 
        existing Evergreen Mountain Lookout in the same manner and 
        degree in which the operation and maintenance of such lookout 
        was occurring as of the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Authorization for Land Acquisition.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized 
        to acquire lands and interests therein, by purchase, donation, 
        or exchange, and shall give priority consideration to those 
        lands identified as ``Priority Acquisition Lands'' on the map 
        described in subsection (a)(1). The boundaries of the Mt. 
        Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest and the Wild Sky Wilderness 
        shall be adjusted to encompass any lands acquired pursuant to 
        this section.
            (2) Access.--Consistent with section 5(a) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1134(a)), the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        ensure adequate access to private inholdings within the Wild 
        Sky Wilderness.
            (3) Appraisal.--Valuation of private lands shall be 
        determined without reference to any restrictions on access or 
        use which arise out of designation as a wilderness area as a 
        result of this section.
    (d) Land Exchanges.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall exchange 
lands and interests in lands, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
``Chelan County Public Utility District Exchange'' and dated May 22, 
2002, with the Chelan County Public Utility District in accordance with 
the following provisions:
            (1) If the Chelan County Public Utility District, within 90 
        days after the date of enactment of this Act, offers to the 
        Secretary of Agriculture approximately 371.8 acres within the 
        Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest in the State of 
        Washington, the Secretary shall accept such lands.
            (2) Upon acceptance of title by the Secretary of 
        Agriculture to such lands and interests therein, the Secretary 
        of Agriculture shall convey to the Chelan County Public Utility 
        District a permanent easement, including helicopter access, 
        consistent with such levels as used as of the date of enactment 
        of this Act, to maintain an existing telemetry site to monitor 
        snow pack on 1.82 acres on the Wenatchee National Forest in the 
        State of Washington.
            (3) The exchange directed by this section shall be 
        consummated if Chelan County Public Utility District conveys 
        title acceptable to the Secretary and provided there is no 
        hazardous material on the site, which is objectionable to the 
        Secretary.
            (4) In the event Chelan County Public Utility District 
        determines there is no longer a need to maintain a telemetry 
        site to monitor the snow pack for calculating expected runoff 
        into the Lake Chelan hydroelectric project and the 
        hydroelectric projects in the Columbia River Basin, the 
        Secretary shall be notified in writing and the easement shall 
        be extinguished and all rights conveyed by this exchange shall 
        revert to the United States.

SEC. 102. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL RECREATIONAL TRAIL, WILLAMETTE 
              NATIONAL FOREST, OREGON, IN HONOR OF JIM WEAVER, A FORMER 
              MEMBER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

    (a) Designation.--Forest Service trail number 3590 in the 
Willamette National Forest in Lane County, Oregon, which is a 19.6 mile 
trail that begins and ends at North Waldo Campground and 
circumnavigates Waldo Lake, is hereby designated as a national 
recreation trail under section 4 of the National Trails System Act (16 
U.S.C. 1243) and shall be known as the ``Jim Weaver Loop Trail''.
    (b) Interpretive Sign.--Using funds available for the Forest 
Service, the Secretary of Agriculture shall prepare, install, and 
maintain an appropriate sign at the trailhead of the Jim Weaver Loop 
Trail to indicate the name of the trail and to provide information 
regarding the life and career of Congressman Jim Weaver.

           TITLE II--BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 201. PIEDRAS BLANCAS HISTORIC LIGHT STATION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Light station.--The term ``Light Station'' means 
        Piedras Blancas Light Station.
            (2) Outstanding natural area.--The term ``Outstanding 
        Natural Area'' means the Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station 
        Outstanding Natural Area established pursuant to subsection 
        (c).
            (3) Public lands.--The term ``public lands'' has the 
        meaning stated in section 103(e) of the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1703(e)).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (b) Findings.--Congress finds as follows:
            (1) The publicly owned Piedras Blancas Light Station has 
        nationally recognized historical structures that should be 
        preserved for present and future generations.
            (2) The coastline adjacent to the Light Station is 
        internationally recognized as having significant wildlife and 
        marine habitat that provides critical information to research 
        institutions throughout the world.
            (3) The Light Station tells an important story about 
        California's coastal prehistory and history in the context of 
        the surrounding region and communities.
            (4) The coastal area surrounding the Light Station was 
        traditionally used by Indian people, including the Chumash and 
        Salinan Indian tribes.
            (5) The Light Station is historically associated with the 
        nearby world-famous Hearst Castle (Hearst San Simeon State 
        Historical Monument), now administered by the State of 
        California.
            (6) The Light Station represents a model partnership where 
        future management can be successfully accomplished among the 
        Federal Government, the State of California, San Luis Obispo 
        County, local communities, and private groups.
            (7) Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station Outstanding 
        Natural Area would make a significant addition to the National 
        Landscape Conservation System administered by the Department of 
        the Interior's Bureau of Land Management.
            (8) Statutory protection is needed for the Light Station 
        and its surrounding Federal lands to ensure that it remains a 
        part of our historic, cultural, and natural heritage and to be 
        a source of inspiration for the people of the United States.
    (c) Designation of the Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station 
Outstanding Natural Area.--
            (1) In general.--In order to protect, conserve, and enhance 
        for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations 
        the unique and nationally important historical, natural, 
        cultural, scientific, educational, scenic, and recreational 
        values of certain lands in and around the Piedras Blancas Light 
        Station, in San Luis Obispo County, California, while allowing 
        certain recreational and research activities to continue, there 
        is established, subject to valid existing rights, the Piedras 
        Blancas Historic Light Station Outstanding Natural Area.
            (2) Maps and legal descriptions.--The boundaries of the 
        Outstanding Natural Area as those shown on the map entitled 
        ``Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station: Outstanding Natural 
        Area'', dated May 5, 2004, which shall be on file and available 
        for public inspection in the Office of the Director, Bureau of 
        Land Management, United States Department of the Interior, and 
        the State office of the Bureau of Land Management in the State 
        of California.
            (3) Basis of management.--The Secretary shall manage the 
        Outstanding Natural Area as part of the National Landscape 
        Conservation System to protect the resources of the area, and 
        shall allow only those uses that further the purposes for the 
        establishment of the Outstanding Natural Area, the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and 
        other applicable laws.
            (4) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, and in 
        accordance with the existing withdrawal as set forth in Public 
        Land Order 7501 (Oct. 12, 2001, Vol. 66, No. 198, Federal 
        Register 52149), the Federal lands and interests in lands 
        included within the Outstanding Natural Area are hereby 
        withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the public 
                land mining laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing and geothermal 
                leasing laws and the mineral materials laws.
    (d) Management of the Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station 
Outstanding Natural Area.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the Outstanding 
        Natural Area in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances 
        the unique and nationally important historical, natural, 
        cultural, scientific, educational, scenic, and recreational 
        values of that area, including an emphasis on preserving and 
        restoring the Light Station facilities, consistent with the 
        requirements of subsection (c)(3).
            (2) Uses.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary 
        shall only allow such uses of the Outstanding Natural Area as 
        the Secretary finds are likely to further the purposes for 
        which the Outstanding Natural Area is established as set forth 
        in subsection (c)(1).
            (3) Management plan.--Not later than 3 years after of the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete a 
        comprehensive management plan consistent with the requirements 
        of section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
        1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712) to provide long-term management guidance 
        for the public lands within the Outstanding Natural Area and 
        fulfill the purposes for which it is established, as set forth 
        in subsection (c)(1). The management plan shall be developed in 
        consultation with appropriate Federal, State, and local 
        government agencies, with full public participation, and the 
        contents shall include--
                    (A) provisions designed to ensure the protection of 
                the resources and values described in subsection 
                (c)(1);
                    (B) objectives to restore the historic Light 
                Station and ancillary buildings;
                    (C) an implementation plan for a continuing program 
                of interpretation and public education about the Light 
                Station and its importance to the surrounding 
                community;
                    (D) a proposal for minimal administrative and 
                public facilities to be developed or improved at a 
                level compatible with achieving the resources 
                objectives for the Outstanding Natural Area as 
                described in paragraph (1) and with other proposed 
                management activities to accommodate visitors and 
                researchers to the Outstanding Natural Area; and
                    (E) cultural resources management strategies for 
                the Outstanding Natural Area, prepared in consultation 
                with appropriate departments of the State of 
                California, with emphasis on the preservation of the 
                resources of the Outstanding Natural Area and the 
                interpretive, education, and long-term scientific uses 
                of the resources, giving priority to the enforcement of 
                the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 
                U.S.C. 470aa et seq.) and the National Historic 
                Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) within the 
                Outstanding Natural Area.
            (4) Cooperative agreements.--In order to better implement 
        the management plan and to continue the successful partnerships 
        with the local communities and the Hearst San Simeon State 
        Historical Monument, administered by the California Department 
        of Parks and Recreation, the Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with the appropriate Federal, State, and 
        local agencies pursuant to section 307(b) of the Federal Land 
        Management Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1737(b)).
            (5) Research activities.--In order to continue the 
        successful partnership with research organizations and agencies 
        and to assist in the development and implementation of the 
        management plan, the Secretary may authorize within the 
        Outstanding Natural Area appropriate research activities for 
        the purposes identified in subsection (c)(1) and pursuant to 
        section 307(a) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
        1976 (43 U.S.C. 1737(a)).
            (6) Acquisition.--State and privately held lands or 
        interests in lands adjacent to the Outstanding Natural Area and 
        identified as appropriate for acquisition in the management 
        plan may be acquired by the Secretary as part of the 
        Outstanding Natural Area only by--
                    (A) donation;
                    (B) exchange with a willing party; or
                    (C) purchase from a willing seller.
            (7) Additions to the outstanding natural area.--Any lands 
        or interest in lands adjacent to the Outstanding Natural Area 
        acquired by the United States after the date of enactment of 
        this Act shall be added to and administered as part of the 
        Outstanding Natural Area.
            (8) Overflights.--Nothing in this section or the management 
        plan shall be construed to--
                    (A) restrict or preclude overflights, including low 
                level overflights, military, commercial, and general 
                aviation overflights that can be seen or heard within 
                the Outstanding Natural Area;
                    (B) restrict or preclude the designation or 
                creation of new units of special use airspace or the 
                establishment of military flight training routes over 
                the Outstanding Natural Area; or
                    (C) modify regulations governing low-level 
                overflights above the adjacent Monterey Bay National 
                Marine Sanctuary.
            (9) Law enforcement activities.--Nothing in this section 
        shall be construed to preclude or otherwise affect coastal 
        border security operations or other law enforcement activities 
        by the Coast Guard or other agencies within the Department of 
        Homeland Security, the Department of Justice, or any other 
        Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies within the 
        Outstanding Natural Area.
            (10) Native american uses and interests.--In recognition of 
        the past use of the Outstanding Natural Area by Indians and 
        Indian tribes for traditional cultural and religious purposes, 
        the Secretary shall ensure access to the Outstanding Natural 
        Area by Indians and Indian tribes for such traditional cultural 
        and religious purposes. In implementing this subsection, the 
        Secretary, upon the request of an Indian tribe or Indian 
        religious community, shall temporarily close to the general 
        public use of one or more specific portions of the Outstanding 
        Natural Area in order to protect the privacy of traditional 
        cultural and religious activities in such areas by the Indian 
        tribe or Indian religious community. Any such closure shall be 
        made to affect the smallest practicable area for the minimum 
        period necessary for such purposes. Such access shall be 
        consistent with the purpose and intent of Public Law 95-341 (42 
        U.S.C. 1996 et seq.; commonly referred to as the ``American 
        Indian Religious Freedom Act'').
            (11) No buffer zones.--The designation of the Outstanding 
        Natural Area is not intended to lead to the creation of 
        protective perimeters or buffer zones around area. The fact 
        that activities outside the Outstanding Natural Area and not 
        consistent with the purposes of this section can be seen or 
        heard within the Outstanding Natural Area shall not, of itself, 
        preclude such activities or uses up to the boundary of the 
        Outstanding Natural Area.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 202. NEVADA NATIONAL GUARD LAND CONVEYANCE, CLARK COUNTY, NEVADA.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, Clark 
County, Nevada, may convey, without consideration, to the Nevada 
Division of State Lands for use by the Nevada National Guard 
approximately 51 acres of land in Clark County, Nevada, as generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Readiness Center Act'' 
and dated October 4, 2005.
    (b) Limitation.--If the land described in subsection (a) ceases to 
be used by the Nevada National Guard, the land shall revert to Clark 
County, Nevada, for management in accordance with the Southern Nevada 
Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 112 Stat. 
2343).

            TITLE III--NATIONAL PARK SERVICE AUTHORIZATIONS

                   Subtitle A--Cooperative Agreements

SEC. 301. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS FOR NATIONAL PARK NATURAL RESOURCE 
              PROTECTION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this 
section as the ``Secretary'') may enter into cooperative agreements 
with State, local, or tribal governments, other Federal agencies, other 
public entities, educational institutions, private nonprofit 
organizations, or participating private landowners for the purpose of 
protecting natural resources of units of the National Park System 
through collaborative efforts on land inside and outside of National 
Park System units.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--A cooperative agreement entered into 
under subsection (a) shall provide clear and direct benefits to park 
natural resources and--
            (1) provide for--
                    (A) the preservation, conservation, and restoration 
                of coastal and riparian systems, watersheds, and 
                wetlands;
                    (B) preventing, controlling, or eradicating 
                invasive exotic species that are within a unit of the 
                National Park System or adjacent to a unit of the 
                National Park System; or
                    (C) restoration of natural resources, including 
                native wildlife habitat or ecosystems;
            (2) include a statement of purpose demonstrating how the 
        agreement will--
                    (A) enhance science-based natural resource 
                stewardship at the unit of the National Park System; 
                and
                    (B) benefit the parties to the agreement;
            (3) specify any staff required and technical assistance to 
        be provided by the Secretary or other parties to the agreement 
        in support of activities inside and outside the unit of the 
        National Park System that will--
                    (A) protect natural resources of the unit of the 
                National Park System; and
                    (B) benefit the parties to the agreement;
            (4) identify any materials, supplies, or equipment and any 
        other resources that will be contributed by the parties to the 
        agreement or by other Federal agencies;
            (5) describe any financial assistance to be provided by the 
        Secretary or the partners to implement the agreement;
            (6) ensure that any expenditure by the Secretary pursuant 
        to the agreement is determined by the Secretary to support the 
        purposes of natural resource stewardship at a unit of the 
        National Park System; and
            (7) include such other terms and conditions as are agreed 
        to by the Secretary and the other parties to the agreement.
    (c) Limitations.--The Secretary shall not use any funds associated 
with an agreement entered into under subsection (a) for the purposes of 
land acquisition, regulatory activity, or the development, maintenance, 
or operation of infrastructure, except for ancillary support facilities 
that the Secretary determines to be necessary for the completion of 
projects or activities identified in the agreement.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

                    Subtitle B--Boundary Adjustments

SEC. 311. CARL SANDBURG HOME NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE BOUNDARY 
              ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Historic site.--The term ``Historic Site'' means Carl 
        Sandburg Home National Historic Site.
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Sandburg Center Alternative'' numbered 445/80,017 and dated 
        April 2007.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (b) Acquisition Authority.--The Secretary may acquire from willing 
sellers by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or 
exchange not more than 110 acres of land, water, or interests in land 
and water, within the area depicted on the map, to be added to the 
Historic Site.
    (c) Visitor Center.--To preserve the historic character and 
landscape of the site, the Secretary may also acquire up to five acres 
for the development of a visitor center and visitor parking area 
adjacent to or in the general vicinity of the Historic Site.
    (d) Boundary Revision.--Upon acquisition of any land or interest in 
land under this section, the Secretary shall revise the boundary of the 
Historic Site to reflect the acquisition.
    (e) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
    (f) Administration.--Land added to the Historic Site by this 
section shall be administered as part of the Historic Site in 
accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

SEC. 312. LOWELL NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    The Act entitled ``An Act to provide for the establishment of the 
Lowell National Historical Park in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 
and for other purposes'' approved June 5, 1978 (Public Law 95-290; 92 
Stat. 290; 16 U.S.C. 410cc et seq.) is amended as follows:
            (1) In section 101(a), by adding a new paragraph after 
        paragraph (2) as follows:
            ``(3) The boundaries of the park are modified to include 
        five parcels of land identified on the map entitled `Boundary 
        Adjustment, Lowell National Historical Park,' numbered 475/
        81,424B and dated September 2004, and as delineated in section 
        202(a)(2)(G).''.
            (2) In section 202(a)(2), by adding at the end the 
        following new subparagraph:
                    ``(G) The properties shown on the map identified in 
                subsection (101)(a)(3) as follows:
                            ``(i) 91 Pevey Street.
                            ``(ii) The portion of 607 Middlesex Place.
                            ``(iii) Eagle Court.
                            ``(iv) The portion of 50 Payne Street.
                            ``(v) 726 Broadway.''.

SEC. 313. MESA VERDE NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY EXPANSION.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) on June 29, 1906, Mesa Verde National Park was 
        established as the first national park in the United States to 
        preserve the works of humanity;
            (2) on September 6, 1978, Mesa Verde National Park became 
        the first World Heritage Site designated in the United States; 
        and
            (3) Mesa Verde National Park protects some of the best 
        preserved and notable archeological sites of the ancient 
        Puebloan culture that flourished in the southwestern United 
        States from approximately 600-1300, including the elaborate 
        stone villages in the sheltered alcoves of the canyon walls 
        referred to as ``cliff dwellings''.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            (1) to modify the boundary of Mesa Verde National Park--
                    (A) to protect the archeological sites located on 
                property adjacent to the Park boundary;
                    (B) to extend and expand the knowledge and 
                understanding of the ancient Puebloan culture, a major 
                influence in the development of the southwestern United 
                States;
                    (C) to protect from potential development the 
                scenic and biological value of the pinyon-juniper 
                covered hills that--
                            (i) border the Park; and
                            (ii) are in full view of the Park entrance 
                        road; and
                    (D) to protect the largest recorded colony of the 
                globally imperiled Gray's Townsend Daisy, to ensure 
                continuation of a major wildlife corridor, and to 
                protect important habitat for wildlife; and
            (2) to provide greater opportunities to visitors, 
        researchers, and surrounding communities to understand and 
        appreciate the natural environment of Mesa Verde and the 
        contributions of the ancient Puebloan culture to the region by 
        providing the land required to construct a contemporary museum 
        collections storage facility and visitor orientation center.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Mesa 
        Verde National Park Proposed Boundary Adjustment'', numbered 
        307/80,180, and dated March 1, 2007.
            (2) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the Mesa Verde National 
        Park in the State of Colorado.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (d) Acquisition of Land.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire the land or an 
        interest in the land described in subsection (e) for addition 
        to the Park.
            (2) Means.--An acquisition of land under paragraph (1) may 
        be made by donation, purchase from a willing seller with 
        donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
    (e) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (d)(1) 
is the approximately 360 acres of land adjacent to the Park, as 
generally depicted on the map.
    (f) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available 
for inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
    (g) Boundary Modification.--The boundary of the Park shall be 
revised to reflect the acquisition of the land under subsection (d).
    (h) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer any land or 
interest in land acquired under subsection (d)(1) as part of the Park 
in accordance with the laws (including regulations) applicable to the 
Park.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

                          Subtitle C--Studies

SEC. 321. NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY, NEWTONIA CIVIL 
              WAR BATTLEFIELDS, MISSOURI.

    (a) Special Resource Study.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
conduct a special resource study relating to the First Battle of 
Newtonia in Newton County, Missouri, which occurred on September 30, 
1862, and the Second Battle of Newtonia, which occurred on October 28, 
1864, during the Missouri Expedition of Confederate General Sterling 
Price in September and October 1864.
    (b) Contents.--In conducting the study under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) evaluate the national significance of the Newtonia 
        battlefields and their related sites;
            (2) consider the findings and recommendations contained in 
        the document entitled ``Vision Plan for Newtonia Battlefield 
        Preservation'' and dated June 2004, which was prepared by the 
        Newtonia Battlefields Protection Association;
            (3) evaluate the suitability and feasibility of adding the 
        battlefields and related sites as part of Wilson's Creek 
        National Battlefield or designating the battlefields and 
        related sites as a unit of the National Park System;
            (4) analyze the potential impact that the inclusion of the 
        battlefields and related sites as part of Wilson's Creek 
        National Battlefield or their designation as a unit of the 
        National Park System is likely to have on land within or 
        bordering the battlefields and related sites that is privately 
        owned at the time of the study is conducted;
            (5) consider alternatives for preservation, protection, and 
        interpretation of the battlefields and related sites by the 
        National Park Service, other Federal, State, or local 
        governmental entities, or private and nonprofit organizations; 
        and
            (6) identify cost estimates for any necessary acquisition, 
        development, interpretation, operation, and maintenance 
        associated with the alternatives referred to in paragraph (5).
    (c) Criteria.--The criteria for the study of areas for potential 
inclusion in the National Park System contained in section 8 of Public 
Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5) shall apply to the study under subsection 
(a).
    (d) Transmission to Congress.--Not later than three years after the 
date on which funds are first made available for the study under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate a report containing--
            (1) the results of the study; and
            (2) any conclusions and recommendations of the Secretary.

SEC. 322. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE STUDY REGARDING THE SOLDIERS' MEMORIAL 
              MILITARY MUSEUM.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds as follows:
            (1) The Soldiers' Memorial is a tribute to all veterans 
        located in the greater St. Louis area, including Southern 
        Illinois.
            (2) The current annual budget for the memorial is $185,000 
        and is paid for exclusively by the City of St. Louis.
            (3) In 1923, the City of St. Louis voted to spend 
        $6,000,000 to purchase a memorial plaza and building dedicated 
        to citizens of St. Louis who lost their lives in World War I.
            (4) The purchase of the 7 block site exhausted the funds 
        and no money remained to construct a monument.
            (5) In 1933, Mayor Bernard F. Dickmann appealed to citizens 
        and the city government to raise $1,000,000 to construct a 
        memorial building and general improvement of the plaza area and 
        the construction of Soldiers' Memorial began on October 21, 
        1935.
            (6) On October 14, 1936, President Franklin D. Roosevelt 
        officially dedicated the site.
            (7) On Memorial Day in 1938, Mayor Dickmann opened the 
        building to the public.
    (b) Study.--The Secretary of the Interior shall carry out a study 
to determine the suitability and feasibility of designating the 
Soldiers' Memorial Military Museum, located at 1315 Chestnut, St. 
Louis, Missouri, as a unit of the National Park System.
    (c) Study Process and Completion.--Section 8(c) of Public Law 91-
383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5(c)) shall apply to the conduct and completion of 
the study required by this section.
    (d) Report.--The Secretary shall submit a report describing the 
results the study required by this section to the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate.

SEC. 323. WOLF HOUSE STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall complete a special resource 
study of the Wolf House located on Highway 5 in Norfork, Arkansas, to 
determine--
            (1) the suitability and feasibility of designating the Wolf 
        House as a unit of the National Park System; and
            (2) the methods and means for the protection and 
        interpretation of the Wolf House by the National Park Service, 
        other Federal, State, or local government entities or private 
        or non-profit organizations.
    (b) Study Requirements.--The Secretary shall conduct the study in 
accordance with section 8(c) of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5).
    (c) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds 
are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the Senate a report containing--
            (1) the results of the study; and
            (2) any recommendations of the Secretary.

SEC. 324. SPACE SHUTTLE COLUMBIA STUDY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Memorial.--The term ``memorial'' means a memorial to 
        the Space Shuttle Columbia that is subject to the study in 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National 
        Park Service.
    (b) Study of Suitability and Feasibility of Establishing Memorials 
to the Space Shuttle Columbia.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date on 
        which funds are made available, the Secretary shall conduct a 
        special resource study to determine the feasibility and 
        suitability of establishing a memorial as a unit or units of 
        the National Park System to the Space Shuttle Columbia on land 
        in the State of Texas described in paragraph (2) on which large 
        debris from the Shuttle was recovered.
            (2) Description of land.--The parcels of land referred to 
        in paragraph (1) are--
                    (A) the parcel of land owned by the Fredonia 
                Corporation, located at the southeast corner of the 
                intersection of East Hospital Street and North Fredonia 
                Street, Nacogdoches, Texas;
                    (B) the parcel of land owned by Temple Inland Inc., 
                10 acres of a 61-acre tract bounded by State Highway 83 
                and Bayou Bend Road, Hemphill, Texas;
                    (C) the parcel of land owned by the city of Lufkin, 
                Texas, located at City Hall Park, 301 Charlton Street, 
                Lufkin, Texas; and
                    (D) the parcel of land owned by San Augustine 
                County, Texas, located at 1109 Oaklawn Street, San 
                Augustine, Texas.
            (3) Additional sites.--The Secretary may recommend to 
        Congress additional sites in the State of Texas relating to the 
        Space Shuttle Columbia for establishment as memorials to the 
        Space Shuttle Columbia.

SEC. 325. CESAR E. CHAVEZ STUDY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
funds are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary of 
the Interior (referred to in this section as the ``Secretary'') shall 
complete a special resource study of sites in the State of Arizona, the 
State of California, and other States that are significant to the life 
of Cesar E. Chavez and the farm labor movement in the western United 
States to determine--
            (1) appropriate methods for preserving and interpreting the 
        sites; and
            (2) whether any of the sites meets the criteria for listing 
        on the National Register of Historic Places or designation as a 
        national historic landmark under--
                    (A) the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et 
                seq.); or
                    (B) the National Historic Preservation Act (16 
                U.S.C. 470 et seq.).
    (b) Requirements.--In conducting the study under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall--
            (1) consider the criteria for the study of areas for 
        potential inclusion in the National Park System under section 
        8(b)(2) of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5(b)(2)); and
            (2) consult with--
                    (A) the Cesar E. Chavez Foundation;
                    (B) the United Farm Workers Union; and
                    (C) State and local historical associations and 
                societies, including any State historic preservation 
                offices in the State in which the site is located.
    (c) Report.--On completion of the study, the Secretary shall submit 
to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a 
report that describes--
            (1) the findings of the study; and
            (2) any recommendations of the Secretary.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 326. TAUNTON, MASSACHUSETTS, SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this 
section as the ``Secretary''), in consultation with the appropriate 
State historic preservation officers, State historical societies, the 
city of Taunton, Massachusetts, and other appropriate organizations, 
shall conduct a special resources study regarding the suitability and 
feasibility of designating certain historic buildings and areas in 
Taunton, Massachusetts, as a unit of the National Park System. The 
study shall be conducted and completed in accordance with section 8(c) 
of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5(c)) and shall include analysis, 
documentation, and determinations regarding whether the historic areas 
in Taunton--
            (1) can be managed, curated, interpreted, restored, 
        preserved, and presented as an organic whole under management 
        by the National Park Service or under an alternative management 
        structure;
            (2) have an assemblage of natural, historic, and cultural 
        resources that together represent distinctive aspects of 
        American heritage worthy of recognition, conservation, 
        interpretation, and continuing use;
            (3) reflect traditions, customs, beliefs, and historical 
        events that are valuable parts of the national story;
            (4) provide outstanding opportunities to conserve natural, 
        historic, cultural, architectural, or scenic features;
            (5) provide outstanding recreational and educational 
        opportunities; and
            (6) can be managed by the National Park Service in 
        partnership with residents, business interests, nonprofit 
        organizations, and State and local governments to develop a 
        unit of the National Park System consistent with State and 
        local economic activity.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 3 fiscal years after the date on which 
funds are first made available for this section, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the Senate a report on the findings, conclusions, and recommendations 
of the study required under subsection (a).
    (c) Private Property.--The recommendations in the report submitted 
pursuant to subsection (b) shall include discussion and consideration 
of the concerns expressed by private landowners with respect to 
designating certain structures referred to in this section as a unit of 
the National Park System.

            Subtitle D--Memorials, Commissions, and Museums

SEC. 331. COMMEMORATIVE WORK TO HONOR BRIGADIER GENERAL FRANCIS MARION 
              AND HIS FAMILY.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) Francis Marion was born in 1732 in St. John's Parish, 
        Berkeley County, South Carolina. He married Mary Esther Videau 
        on April 20th, 1786. Francis and Mary Esther Marion had no 
        children, but raised a son of a relative as their own, and gave 
        the child Francis Marion's name.
            (2) Brigadier General Marion commanded the Williamsburg 
        Militia Revolutionary force in South Carolina and was 
        instrumental in delaying the advance of British forces by 
        leading his troops in disrupting supply lines.
            (3) Brigadier General Marion's tactics, which were unheard 
        of in rules of warfare at the time, included lightning raids on 
        British convoys, after which he and his forces would retreat 
        into the swamps to avoid capture. British Lieutenant Colonel 
        Tarleton stated that ``as for this damned old swamp fox, the 
        devil himself could not catch him''. Thus, the legend of the 
        ``Swamp Fox'' was born.
            (4) His victory at the Battle of Eutaw Springs in September 
        of 1781 was officially recognized by Congress.
            (5) Brigadier General Marion's troops are believed to be 
        the first racially integrated force fighting for the United 
        States, as his band was a mix of Whites, Blacks, both free and 
        slave, and Native Americans.
            (6) As a statesman, he represented his parish in the South 
        Carolina senate as well as his State at the Constitutional 
        Convention.
            (7) Although the Congress has authorized the establishment 
        of commemorative works on Federal lands in the District of 
        Columbia honoring such celebrated Americans as George 
        Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and Abraham Lincoln, the National 
        Capital has no comparable memorial to Brigadier General Francis 
        Marion for his bravery and leadership during the Revolutionary 
        War, without which the United States would not exist.
            (8) Brigadier General Marion's legacy must live on. Since 
        1878, United States Reservation 18 has been officially referred 
        to as Marion Park. Located between 4th and 6th Streets, S.E., 
        at the intersection of E Street and South Carolina Avenue, 
        S.E., in Washington, DC, the park lacks a formal commemoration 
        to this South Carolina hero who was important to the initiation 
        of the Nation's heritage.
            (9) The time has come to correct this oversight so that 
        future generations of Americans will know and understand the 
        preeminent historical and lasting significance to the Nation of 
        Brigadier General Marion's contributions. Such a South Carolina 
        hero deserves to be given the proper recognition.
    (b) Authority To Establish Commemorative Work.--The Marion Park 
Project, a committee of the Palmetto Conservation Foundation, may 
establish a commemorative work on Federal land in the District of 
Columbia and its environs to honor Brigadier General Francis Marion and 
his service.
    (c) Compliance With Standards for Commemorative Works.--The 
commemorative work authorized by subsection (b) shall be established in 
accordance with chapter 89 of title 40, United States Code (commonly 
known as the ``Commemorative Works Act'').
    (d) Use of Federal Funds Prohibited.--Federal funds may not be used 
to pay any expense of the establishment of the commemorative work 
authorized by subsection (b). The Marion Park Project, a committee of 
the Palmetto Conservation Foundation, shall be solely responsible for 
acceptance of contributions for, and payment of the expenses of, the 
establishment of that commemorative work.
    (e) Deposit of Excess Funds.--If, upon payment of all expenses of 
the establishment of the commemorative work authorized by subsection 
(b) (including the maintenance and preservation amount provided for in 
section 8906(b) of title 40, United States Code), or upon expiration of 
the authority for the commemorative work under chapter 89 of title 40, 
United States Code, there remains a balance of funds received for the 
establishment of that commemorative work, the Marion Park Project, a 
committee of the Palmetto Conservation Foundation, shall transmit the 
amount of the balance to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit in 
the account provided for in section 8906(b)(1) of such title.
    (f) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section, the terms 
``commemorative work'' and ``the District of Columbia and its 
environs'' have the meanings given to such terms in section 8902(a) of 
title 40, United States Code.

SEC. 332. DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER MEMORIAL COMMISSION.

    Section 8162 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 
(Public Law 106-79; 113 Stat. 1274) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (j) and inserting the following:
    ``(j) Powers of the Commission.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Powers.--The Commission may--
                            ``(i) make such expenditures for services 
                        and materials for the purpose of carrying out 
                        this section as the Commission considers 
                        advisable from funds appropriated or received 
                        as gifts for that purpose;
                            ``(ii) solicit and accept contributions to 
                        be used in carrying out this section or to be 
                        used in connection with the construction or 
                        other expenses of the memorial;
                            ``(iii) hold hearings and enter into 
                        contracts;
                            ``(iv) enter into contracts for specialized 
                        or professional services as necessary to carry 
                        out this section; and
                            ``(v) take such actions as are necessary to 
                        carry out this section.
                    ``(B) Specialized or professional services.--
                Services under subparagraph (A)(iv) may be--
                            ``(i) obtained without regard to the 
                        provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
                        including section 3109 of that title; and
                            ``(ii) may be paid without regard to the 
                        provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
                        including chapter 51 and subchapter III of 
                        chapter 53 of that title.
            ``(2) Gifts of property.--The Commission may accept gifts 
        of real or personal property to be used in carrying out this 
        section, including to be used in connection with the 
        construction or other expenses of the memorial.
            ``(3) Federal cooperation.--At the request of the 
        Commission, a Federal department or agency may provide any 
        information or other assistance to the Commission that the head 
        of the Federal department or agency determines to be 
        appropriate.
            ``(4) Powers of members and agents.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If authorized by the Commission, 
                any member or agent of the Commission may take any 
                action that the Commission is authorized to take under 
                this section.
                    ``(B) Architect.--The Commission may appoint an 
                architect as an agent of the Commission to--
                            ``(i) represent the Commission on various 
                        governmental source selection and planning 
                        boards on the selection of the firms that will 
                        design and construct the memorial; and
                            ``(ii) perform other duties as designated 
                        by the Chairperson of the Commission.
                    ``(C) Treatment.--An authorized member or agent of 
                the Commission (including an individual appointed under 
                subparagraph (B)) providing services to the Commission 
                shall be considered an employee of the Federal 
                Government in the performance of those services for the 
                purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States 
                Code, relating to tort claims.
            ``(5) Travel.--Each member of the Commission shall be 
        allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies 
        under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
        Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business 
        in the performance of services for the Commission.'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (o) as subsection (q); and
            (3) by adding after subsection (n) the following:
    ``(o) Staff and Support Services.--
            ``(1) Executive director.--There shall be an Executive 
        Director appointed by the Commission to be paid at a rate not 
        to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay for level IV of the 
        Executive Schedule.
            ``(2) Staff.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The staff of the Commission may 
                be appointed and terminated without regard to the 
                provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing 
                appointments in the competitive service, and may be 
                paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and 
                subchapter III of chapter 53 of that title, relating to 
                classification and General Schedule pay rates, except 
                that an individual appointed under this paragraph may 
                not receive pay in excess of the maximum rate of basic 
                pay for GS-15 of the General Schedule.
                    ``(B) Senior staff.--Notwithstanding subparagraph 
                (A), not more than 3 staff employees of the Commission 
                (in addition to the Executive Director) may be paid at 
                a rate not to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay for 
                level IV of the Executive Schedule.
            ``(3) Staff of federal agencies.--On request of the 
        Commission, the head of any Federal department or agency may 
        detail any of the personnel of the department or agency to the 
        Commission to assist the Commission to carry out its duties 
        under this section.
            ``(4) Federal support.--The Commission shall obtain 
        administrative and support services from the General Services 
        Administration on a reimbursable basis. The Commission may use 
        all contracts, schedules, and acquisition vehicles allowed to 
        external clients through the General Services Administration.
            ``(5) Cooperative agreements.--The Commission may enter 
        into cooperative agreements with Federal agencies, State, 
        local, tribal and international governments, and private 
        interests and organizations which will further the goals and 
        purposes of this section.
            ``(6) Temporary, intermittent, and part-time services.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Commission may obtain 
                temporary, intermittent, and part-time services under 
                section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, at rates 
                not to exceed the maximum annual rate of basic pay 
                payable under section 5376 of that title.
                    ``(B) Non-applicability to certain services.--This 
                paragraph shall not apply to services under subsection 
                (j)(1)(A)(iv).
            ``(7) Volunteer services.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding section 1342 of 
                title 31, United States Code, the Commission may accept 
                and utilize the services of volunteers serving without 
                compensation.
                    ``(B) Reimbursement.--The Commission may reimburse 
                such volunteers for local travel and office supplies, 
                and for other travel expenses, including per diem in 
                lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of 
                title 5, United States Code.
                    ``(C) Liability.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), 
                        a volunteer described in subparagraph (A) shall 
                        be considered to be a volunteer for purposes of 
                        the Volunteer Protection Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 
                        14501 et seq.).
                            ``(ii) Exception.--Section 4(d) of the 
                        Volunteer Protection Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 
                        14503(d)) shall not apply for purposes of a 
                        claim against a volunteer described in 
                        subparagraph (A).
    ``(p) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as necessary to carry out this section.''.

SEC. 333. COMMISSION TO STUDY THE POTENTIAL CREATION OF A NATIONAL 
              MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN LATINO.

    (a) Establishment of Commission.--
            (1) In general.--There is established the Commission to 
        Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of the 
        American Latino (hereafter in this section referred to as the 
        ``Commission'').
            (2) Membership.--The Commission shall consist of 23 members 
        appointed not later than 6 months after the date of enactment 
        of this Act as follows:
                    (A) The President shall appoint 7 voting members.
                    (B) The Speaker of the House of Representatives, 
                the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, 
                the Majority Leader of the Senate, and the Minority 
                Leader of the Senate shall each appoint 3 voting 
                members.
                    (C) In addition to the members appointed under 
                subparagraph (B), the Speaker of the House of 
                Representatives, the Minority Leader of the House of 
                Representatives, the Majority Leader of the Senate, and 
                the Minority Leader of the Senate shall each appoint 1 
                nonvoting member.
            (3) Qualifications.--Members of the Commission shall be 
        chosen from among individuals, or representatives of 
        institutions or entities, who possess either--
                    (A) a demonstrated commitment to the research, 
                study, or promotion of American Latino life, art, 
                history, political or economic status, or culture, 
                together with--
                            (i) expertise in museum administration;
                            (ii) expertise in fundraising for nonprofit 
                        or cultural institutions;
                            (iii) experience in the study and teaching 
                        of Latino culture and history at the post-
                        secondary level;
                            (iv) experience in studying the issue of 
                        the Smithsonian Institution's representation of 
                        American Latino art, life, history, and 
                        culture; or
                            (v) extensive experience in public or 
                        elected service; or
                    (B) experience in the administration of, or the 
                planning for the establishment of, museums devoted to 
                the study and promotion of the role of ethnic, racial, 
                or cultural groups in American history.
    (b) Functions of the Commission.--
            (1) Plan of action for establishment and maintenance of 
        museum.--The Commission shall submit a report to the President 
        and the Congress containing its recommendations with respect to 
        a plan of action for the establishment and maintenance of a 
        National Museum of the American Latino in Washington, DC 
        (hereafter in this section referred to as the ``Museum'').
            (2) Fundraising plan.--The Commission shall develop a 
        fundraising plan for supporting the creation and maintenance of 
        the Museum through contributions by the American people, and a 
        separate plan on fundraising by the American Latino community.
            (3) Report on issues.--The Commission shall examine (in 
        consultation with the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
        Institution), and submit a report to the President and the 
        Congress on, the following issues:
                    (A) The availability and cost of collections to be 
                acquired and housed in the Museum.
                    (B) The impact of the Museum on regional Hispanic- 
                and Latino-related museums.
                    (C) Possible locations for the Museum in 
                Washington, DC and its environs, to be considered in 
                consultation with the National Capital Planning 
                Commission and the Commission of Fine Arts, the 
                Department of the Interior and Smithsonian Institution.
                    (D) Whether the Museum should be located within the 
                Smithsonian Institution.
                    (E) The governance and organizational structure 
                from which the Museum should operate.
                    (F) How to engage the American Latino community in 
                the development and design of the Museum.
                    (G) The cost of constructing, operating, and 
                maintaining the Museum.
            (4) Legislation to carry out plan of action.--Based on the 
        recommendations contained in the report submitted under 
        paragraph (1) and the report submitted under paragraph (3), the 
        Commission shall submit for consideration to the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on House Administration of the 
        House of Representatives, the Committee on Rules and 
        Administration of the Senate, the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, and the Committees 
        on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
        Senate recommendations for a legislative plan of action to 
        create and construct the Museum.
            (5) National conference.--In carrying out its functions 
        under this section, the Commission may convene a national 
        conference on the Museum, comprised of individuals committed to 
        the advancement of American Latino life, art, history, and 
        culture, not later than 18 months after the commission members 
        are selected.
    (c) Administrative Provisions.--
            (1) Facilities and support of department of the interior.--
        The Department of the Interior shall provide from funds 
        appropriated for this purpose administrative services, 
        facilities, and funds necessary for the performance of the 
        Commission's functions. These funds shall be made available 
        prior to any meetings of the Commission.
            (2) Compensation.--Each member of the Commission who is not 
        an officer or employee of the Federal Government may receive 
        compensation for each day on which the member is engaged in the 
        work of the Commission, at a daily rate to be determined by the 
        Secretary of the Interior.
            (3) Travel expenses.--Each member shall be entitled to 
        travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in 
        accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of 
        chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
            (4) Federal advisory committee act.--The Commission is not 
        subject to the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee 
        Act.
    (d) Deadline for Submission of Reports; Termination.--
            (1) Deadline.--The Commission shall submit final versions 
        of the reports and plans required under subsection (b) not 
        later than 24 months after the date of the Commission's first 
        meeting.
            (2) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate not later 
        than 30 days after submitting the final versions of reports and 
        plans pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for carrying out the activities of the Commission 
$2,100,000 for the first fiscal year beginning after the date of 
enactment of this Act and $1,100,000 for the second fiscal year 
beginning after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 334. HUDSON-FULTON-CHAMPLAIN QUADRICENTENNIAL COMMEMORATION 
              COMMISSION.

    (a) Coordination.--Each commission established under this section 
shall coordinate with the other respective commission established under 
this section to ensure that commemorations of Henry Hudson, Robert 
Fulton, and Samuel de Champlain are--
            (1) consistent with the plans and programs of the 
        commemorative commissions established by the States of New York 
        and Vermont; and
            (2) well-organized and successful.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Champlain commemoration.--The term ``Champlain 
        commemoration'' means the commemoration of the 400th 
        anniversary of the voyage of Samuel de Champlain.
            (2) Champlain commission.--The term ``Champlain 
        Commission'' means the Champlain Quadricentennial Commemoration 
        Commission established by subsection (c)(1).
            (3) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means each of the 
        Champlain Commission and the Hudson-Fulton Commission.
            (4) Hudson-fulton commemoration.--The term ``Hudson-Fulton 
        commemoration'' means the commemoration of--
                    (A) the 200th anniversary of the voyage of Robert 
                Fulton in the Clermont; and
                    (B) the 400th anniversary of the voyage of Henry 
                Hudson in the Half Moon.
            (5) Hudson-fulton commission.--The term ``Hudson-Fulton 
        Commission'' means the Hudson-Fulton 400th Commemoration 
        Commission established by subsection (d)(1).
            (6) Lake champlain basin program.--The term ``Lake 
        Champlain Basin Program'' means the partnership established by 
        section 120 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
        U.S.C. 1270) between the States of New York and Vermont and 
        Federal agencies to carry out the Lake Champlain management 
        plan entitled, ``Opportunities for Action: An Evolving Plan for 
        the Lake Champlain Basin''.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (c) Establishment of Champlain Commission.--
            (1) In general.--There is established a commission to be 
        known as the ``Champlain Quadricentennial Commemoration 
        Commission''.
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) Composition.--The Champlain Commission shall be 
                composed of 10 members, of whom--
                            (i) 1 member shall be the Director of the 
                        National Park Service (or a designee);
                            (ii) 4 members shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary from among individuals who, on the 
                        date of enactment of this Act, are--
                                    (I) serving as members of the 
                                Hudson-Fulton-Champlain 
                                Quadricentennial Commission of the 
                                State of New York; and
                                    (II) residents of Champlain Valley, 
                                New York;
                            (iii) 4 members shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary from among individuals who, on the 
                        date of enactment of this Act, are--
                                    (I) serving as members of the Lake 
                                Champlain Quadricentennial Commission 
                                of the State of Vermont; and
                                    (II) residents of the State of 
                                Vermont; and
                            (iv) 1 member shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, and shall be an individual who has--
                                    (I) an interest in, support for, 
                                and expertise appropriate with respect 
                                to, the Champlain commemoration; and
                                    (II) knowledge relating to the 
                                history of the Champlain Valley.
                    (B) Term; vacancies.--
                            (i) Term.--A member of the Champlain 
                        Commission shall be appointed for the life of 
                        the Champlain Commission.
                            (ii) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Champlain 
                        Commission shall be filled in the same manner 
                        in which the original appointment was made.
            (3) Duties.--The Champlain Commission shall--
                    (A) plan, develop, and execute programs and 
                activities appropriate to commemorate the 400th 
                anniversary of the voyage of Samuel de Champlain, the 
                first European to discover and explore Lake Champlain;
                    (B) facilitate activities relating to the Champlain 
                Quadricentennial throughout the United States;
                    (C) coordinate the activities of the Champlain 
                Commission with--
                            (i) State commemoration commissions;
                            (ii) appropriate Federal agencies;
                            (iii) the Lake Champlain Basin Program;
                            (iv) the National Endowment for the Arts; 
                        and
                            (v) the Smithsonian Institution;
                    (D) encourage civic, patriotic, historical, 
                educational, artistic, religious, economic, and other 
                organizations throughout the United States to organize 
                and participate in anniversary activities to expand the 
                understanding and appreciation of the significance of 
                the voyage of Samuel de Champlain;
                    (E) provide technical assistance to States, 
                localities, and nonprofit organizations to further the 
                Champlain commemoration;
                    (F) coordinate and facilitate for the public 
                scholarly research on, publication about, and 
                interpretation of, the voyage of Samuel de Champlain;
                    (G) ensure that the Champlain 2009 anniversary 
                provides a lasting legacy and a long-term public 
                benefit by assisting in the development of appropriate 
                programs and facilities;
                    (H) help ensure that the observances of the voyage 
                of Samuel de Champlain are inclusive and appropriately 
                recognize the experiences and heritage of all people 
                present when Samuel de Champlain arrived in the 
                Champlain Valley; and
                    (I) consult and coordinate with the Lake Champlain 
                Basin Program and other relevant organizations to plan 
                and develop programs and activities to commemorate the 
                voyage of Samuel de Champlain.
    (d) Establishment of Hudson-Fulton Commission.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established a commission to be 
        known as the ``Hudson-Fulton 400th Commemoration Commission''.
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) Composition.--The Hudson-Fulton Commission 
                shall be composed of 15 members, of whom--
                            (i) 1 member shall be the Director of the 
                        National Park Service (or a designee);
                            (ii) 1 member shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, after considering the recommendation 
                        of the Governor of the State of New York;
                            (iii) 6 members shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, after considering the 
                        recommendations of the Members of the House of 
                        Representatives whose districts encompass the 
                        Hudson River Valley;
                            (iv) 2 members shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, after considering the 
                        recommendations of the Members of the Senate 
                        from the State of New York;
                            (v) 2 members shall be--
                                    (I) appointed by the Secretary; and
                                    (II) individuals who have an 
                                interest in, support for, and expertise 
                                appropriate with respect to, the 
                                Hudson-Fulton commemoration, of whom--
                                            (aa) 1 member shall be an 
                                        individual with expertise in 
                                        the Hudson River Valley 
                                        National Heritage Area; and
                                            (bb) 1 member shall be an 
                                        individual with expertise in 
                                        the State of New York, as it 
                                        relates to the Hudson-Fulton 
                                        commemoration;
                            (vi) 1 member shall be the Chairperson of a 
                        commemorative commission formed by the State of 
                        New York (or the designee of the Chairperson); 
                        and
                            (vii) 2 members shall be appointed by the 
                        Secretary, after--
                                    (I) considering the recommendation 
                                of the Mayor of the city of New York; 
                                and
                                    (II) consulting the Members of the 
                                House of Representatives whose 
                                districts encompass the city of New 
                                York.
                    (B) Term; vacancies.--
                            (i) Term.--A member of the Hudson-Fulton 
                        Commission shall be appointed for the life of 
                        the Hudson-Fulton Commission.
                            (ii) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Hudson-
                        Fulton Commission shall be filled in the same 
                        manner in which the original appointment was 
                        made.
            (3) Duties.--The Hudson-Fulton Commission shall--
                    (A) plan, develop, and execute programs and 
                activities appropriate to commemorate--
                            (i) the 400th anniversary of the voyage of 
                        Henry Hudson, the first European to sail up the 
                        Hudson River; and
                            (ii) the 200th anniversary of the voyage of 
                        Robert Fulton, the first person to use steam 
                        navigation on a commercial basis;
                    (B) facilitate activities relating to the Hudson-
                Fulton-Champlain Quadricentennial throughout the United 
                States;
                    (C) coordinate the activities of the Hudson-Fulton 
                Commission with--
                            (i) State commemoration commissions;
                            (ii) appropriate Federal agencies;
                            (iii) the National Park Service, with 
                        respect to the Hudson River Valley National 
                        Heritage Area;
                            (iv) the American Heritage Rivers 
                        Initiative Interagency Committee established by 
                        Executive Order 13061, dated September 11, 
                        1997;
                            (v) the National Endowment for the 
                        Humanities;
                            (vi) the National Endowment for the Arts; 
                        and
                            (vii) the Smithsonian Institution;
                    (D) encourage civic, patriotic, historical, 
                educational, artistic, religious, economic, and other 
                organizations throughout the United States to organize 
                and participate in anniversary activities to expand the 
                understanding and appreciation of the significance of 
                the voyages of Henry Hudson and Robert Fulton;
                    (E) provide technical assistance to States, 
                localities, and nonprofit organizations to further the 
                Hudson-Fulton commemoration;
                    (F) coordinate and facilitate for the public 
                scholarly research on, publication about, and 
                interpretation of, the voyages of Henry Hudson and 
                Robert Fulton;
                    (G) ensure that the Hudson-Fulton 2009 
                commemorations provide a lasting legacy and long-term 
                public benefit by assisting in the development of 
                appropriate programs and facilities; and
                    (H) help ensure that the observances of Henry 
                Hudson are inclusive and appropriately recognize the 
                experiences and heritage of all people present when 
                Henry Hudson sailed the Hudson River.
    (e) Commission Meetings.--
            (1) Initial meeting.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
        on which all members of a commission established under this 
        section have been appointed, the applicable Commission shall 
        hold an initial meeting.
            (2) Meetings.--A commission established under this section 
        shall meet--
                    (A) at least twice each year; or
                    (B) at the call of the Chairperson or the majority 
                of the members of the Commission.
            (3) Quorum.--A majority of voting members shall constitute 
        a quorum, but a lesser number may hold meetings.
            (4) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--
                    (A) Election.--The Commission shall elect the 
                Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson of the Commission 
                on an annual basis.
                    (B) Absence of the chairperson.--The Vice 
                Chairperson shall serve as the Chairperson in the 
                absence of the Chairperson.
            (5) Voting.--A commission established under this section 
        shall act only on an affirmative vote of a majority of the 
        voting members of the applicable Commission.
    (f) Commission Powers.--
            (1) Gifts.--The Commission may solicit, accept, use, and 
        dispose of gifts, bequests, or devises of money or other 
        property for aiding or facilitating the work of the Commission.
            (2) Appointment of advisory committees.--The Commission may 
        appoint such advisory committees as the Commission determines 
        to be necessary to carry out this section.
            (3) Authorization of action.--The Commission may authorize 
        any member or employee of the Commission to take any action 
        that the Commission is authorized to take under this section.
            (4) Procurement.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission may procure 
                supplies, services, and property, and make or enter 
                into contracts, leases, or other legal agreements, to 
                carry out this section (except that a contract, lease, 
                or other legal agreement made or entered into by the 
                Commission shall not extend beyond the date of 
                termination of the Commission).
                    (B) Limitation.--The Commission may not purchase 
                real property.
            (5) Postal services.--The Commission may use the United 
        States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions 
        as other agencies of the Federal Government.
            (6) Grants.--
                    (A)  Champlain commission.--The Champlain 
                Commission may make grants in amounts not to exceed 
                $20,000--
                            (i) to communities, nonprofit 
                        organizations, and State commemorative 
                        commissions to develop programs to assist in 
                        the Champlain commemoration; and
                            (ii) to research and scholarly 
                        organizations to research, publish, or 
                        distribute information relating to the early 
                        history of the voyage of Samuel de Champlain.
                    (B) Hudson-fulton commission.--The Hudson-Fulton 
                Commission may make grants in amounts not to exceed 
                $20,000--
                            (i) to communities, nonprofit 
                        organizations, and State commemorative 
                        commissions to develop programs to assist in 
                        the Hudson-Fulton commemoration; and
                            (ii) to research and scholarly 
                        organizations to research, publish, or 
                        distribute information relating to the early 
                        history of the voyages of Henry Hudson and 
                        Robert Fulton.
            (7) Technical assistance.--The Commission shall provide 
        technical assistance to States, localities, and nonprofit 
        organizations to further the Champlain commemoration and 
        Hudson-Fulton commemoration, as applicable.
            (8) Coordination and consultation with lake champlain basin 
        program.--The Champlain Commission shall coordinate and consult 
        with the Lake Champlain Basin Program to provide grants and 
        technical assistance under paragraphs (6)(A) and (7) for the 
        development of activities commemorating the voyage of Samuel de 
        Champlain.
    (g) Commission Personnel Matters.--
            (1) Compensation of members.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), a member of the Commission shall serve without 
                compensation.
                    (B) Federal employees.--A member of the Commission 
                who is an officer or employee of the Federal Government 
                shall serve without compensation in addition to the 
                compensation received for the services of the member as 
                an officer or employee of the Federal Government.
            (2) Travel expenses.--A member of the Commission shall be 
        allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, at rates authorized for an employee of an agency 
        under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
        Code, while away from the home or regular place of business of 
        the member in the performance of the duties of the Commission.
            (3) Staff.--The Commission may, without regard to the civil 
        service laws (including regulations), appoint and terminate an 
        Executive Director and such other additional personnel as are 
        necessary to enable the Commission to perform the duties of the 
        Commission.
            (4) Compensation.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the Commission may fix the compensation of the 
                Executive Director and other personnel without regard 
                to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of 
                chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, relating to 
                classification of positions and General Schedule pay 
                rates.
                    (B) Maximum rate of pay.--The rate of pay for the 
                Executive Director and other personnel shall not exceed 
                the rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule 
                under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
            (5) Detail of government employees.--
                    (A) Federal employees.--
                            (i) In general.--At the request of the 
                        Commission, the head of any Federal agency may 
                        detail, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable 
                        basis, any of the personnel of the agency to 
                        the Commission to assist the Commission in 
                        carrying out the duties of the Commission under 
                        this section.
                            (ii) Civil service status.--The detail of 
                        an employee under clause (i) shall be without 
                        interruption or loss of civil service status or 
                        privilege.
                    (B) State employees.--The Commission may--
                            (i) accept the services of personnel 
                        detailed from the State of New York or the 
                        State of Vermont, as appropriate (including 
                        subdivisions of the States); and
                            (ii) reimburse the State of New York or the 
                        State of Vermont for services of detailed 
                        personnel.
                    (C) Lake champlain basin program employees.--The 
                Champlain Commission may--
                            (i) accept the services of personnel 
                        detailed from the Lake Champlain Basin Program; 
                        and
                            (ii) reimburse the Lake Champlain Basin 
                        Program for services of detailed personnel.
                    (D) Procurement of temporary and intermittent 
                services.--The Commission may procure temporary and 
                intermittent services in accordance with section 
                3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for 
                individuals that do not exceed the daily equivalent of 
                the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of 
                the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of that 
                title.
            (6) Volunteer and uncompensated services.--Notwithstanding 
        section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, the Commission 
        may accept and use voluntary and uncompensated services as the 
        Commission determines necessary.
            (7) Support services.--The Secretary shall provide to the 
        Commission, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative 
        support services as the Commission may request.
            (8) FACA nonapplicability.--Section 14(b) of the Federal 
        Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the 
        Commission.
    (h) Reports.--Not later than September 30, 2010, the Commission 
shall submit to the Secretary a report that contains--
            (1) a summary of the activities of the Commission;
            (2) a final accounting of funds received and expended by 
        the Commission; and
            (3) the findings and recommendations of the Commission.
    (i) Termination of Commissions.--
            (1) Date of termination.--The Commission shall terminate on 
        December 31, 2010.
            (2) Transfer of documents and materials.--Before the date 
        of termination specified in paragraph (1), the Commission shall 
        transfer all of its documents and materials of the Commission 
        to the National Archives or another appropriate Federal entity.
    (j) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section for each of fiscal years 2008 through 
        2011--
                    (A) $500,000 to the Champlain Commission; and
                    (B) $500,000 to the Hudson-Fulton Commission.
            (2) Availability.--Amounts made available under paragraph 
        (1) shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 335. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE DESIGNATION OF THE NATIONAL 
              MUSEUM OF WILDLIFE ART OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the National Museum of Wildlife Art in Jackson, 
        Wyoming, is devoted to inspiring global recognition of fine art 
        related to nature and wildlife;
            (2) the National Museum of Wildlife Art is an excellent 
        example of a thematic museum that strives to unify the 
        humanities and sciences into a coherent body of knowledge 
        through art;
            (3) the National Museum of Wildlife Art, which was founded 
        in 1987 with a private gift of a collection of art, has grown 
        in stature and importance and is recognized today as the 
        world's premier museum of wildlife art;
            (4) the National Museum of Wildlife Art is the only public 
        museum in the United States with the mission of enriching and 
        inspiring public appreciation and knowledge of fine art, while 
        exploring the relationship between humanity and nature by 
        collecting fine art focused on wildlife;
            (5) the National Museum of Wildlife Art is housed in an 
        architecturally significant and award-winning 51,000-square 
        foot facility that overlooks the 28,000-acre National Elk 
        Refuge and is adjacent to the Grand Teton National Park;
            (6) the National Museum of Wildlife Art is accredited with 
        the American Association of Museums, continues to grow in 
        national recognition and importance with members from every 
        State, and has a Board of Trustees and a National Advisory 
        Board composed of major benefactors and leaders in the arts and 
        sciences from throughout the United States;
            (7) the permanent collection of the National Museum of 
        Wildlife Art has grown to more than 3,000 works by important 
        historic American artists including Edward Hicks, Anna Hyatt 
        Huntington, Charles M. Russell, William Merritt Chase, and 
        Alexander Calder, and contemporary American artists, including 
        Steve Kestrel, Bart Walter, Nancy Howe, John Nieto, and Jamie 
        Wyeth;
            (8) the National Museum of Wildlife Art is a destination 
        attraction in the Western United States with annual attendance 
        of 92,000 visitors from all over the world and an award-winning 
        website that receives more than 10,000 visits per week;
            (9) the National Museum of Wildlife Art seeks to educate a 
        diverse audience through collecting fine art focused on 
        wildlife, presenting exceptional exhibitions, providing 
        community, regional, national, and international outreach, and 
        presenting extensive educational programming for adults and 
        children; and
            (10) a great opportunity exists to use the invaluable 
        resources of the National Museum of Wildlife Art to teach the 
        schoolchildren of the United States, through onsite visits, 
        traveling exhibits, classroom curriculum, online distance 
        learning, and other educational initiatives.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
National Museum of Wildlife Art, located at 2820 Rungius Road, Jackson, 
Wyoming, should be designated as the ``National Museum of Wildlife Art 
of the United States''.

SEC. 336. REDESIGNATION OF ELLIS ISLAND LIBRARY.

    (a) Redesignation.--The Ellis Island Library on the third floor of 
the Ellis Island Immigration Museum, located on Ellis Island in New 
York Harbor, shall be known and redesignated as the ``Bob Hope Memorial 
Library''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the Ellis Island Library 
on the third floor of the Ellis Island Immigration Museum referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Bob Hope 
Memorial Library''.

                     Subtitle E--Trails and Rivers

SEC. 341. AUTHORIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF STAR-SPANGLED BANNER 
              NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL.

    Section 5(a) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(26) Star-spangled banner national historic trail.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Star-Spangled Banner 
                National Historic Trail, a trail consisting of water 
                and overland routes totaling approximately 290 miles, 
                extending from Tangier Island, Virginia, through 
                southern Maryland, the District of Columbia, and 
                northern Virginia, in the Chesapeake Bay, Patuxent 
                River, Potomac River, and north to the Patapsco River, 
                and Baltimore, Maryland, commemorating the Chesapeake 
                Campaign of the War of 1812 (including the British 
                invasion of Washington, District of Columbia, and its 
                associated feints, and the Battle of Baltimore in 
                summer 1814), as generally depicted on the map titled 
                `Star-Spangled Banner National Historic Trail', 
                numbered T02/80,000, and dated June 2007.
                    ``(B) Map.--The map referred to in subparagraph (A) 
                shall be maintained on file and available for public 
                inspection in the appropriate offices of the National 
                Park Service.
                    ``(C) Administration.--Subject to subparagraph 
                (E)(ii), the trail shall be administered by the 
                Secretary of the Interior.
                    ``(D) Land acquisition.--No land or interest in 
                land outside the exterior boundaries of any federally 
                administered area may be acquired by the United States 
                for the trail except with the consent of the owner of 
                the land or interest in land.
                    ``(E) Public participation.--The Secretary of the 
                Interior shall--
                            ``(i) encourage communities, owners of land 
                        along the trail, and volunteer trail groups to 
                        participate in the planning, development, and 
                        maintenance of the trail; and
                            ``(ii) consult with other affected 
                        landowners and Federal, State, and local 
                        agencies in the administration of the trail.
                    ``(F) Interpretation and assistance.--Subject to 
                the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of 
                the Interior may provide, to State and local 
                governments and nonprofit organizations, interpretive 
                programs and services and technical assistance for use 
                in--
                            ``(i) carrying out preservation and 
                        development of the trail; and
                            ``(ii) providing education relating to the 
                        War of 1812 along the trail.''.

SEC. 342. LAND CONVEYANCE, LEWIS AND CLARK NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL, 
              NEBRASKA.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
convey, without consideration, to the Missouri River Basin Lewis and 
Clark Interpretive Trail and Visitor Center Foundation, Inc. (a 
501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization with operational headquarters at 
100 Valmont Drive, Nebraska City, Nebraska 68410), all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to the federally owned land 
under jurisdiction of the Secretary consisting of 2 parcels as 
generally depicted on the map titled ``Lewis and Clark National 
Historic Trail'', numbered 648/80,002, and dated March 2006.
    (b) Survey; Conveyance Cost.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the 
survey and all other costs incurred by the Secretary to convey the land 
shall be borne by the Missouri River Basin Lewis and Clark Interpretive 
Trail and Visitor Center Foundation, Inc.
    (c) Condition of Conveyance, Use of Conveyed Land.--The conveyance 
authorized under subsection (a) shall be subject to the condition that 
the Missouri River Basin Lewis and Clark Interpretive Trail and Visitor 
Center Foundation, Inc. use the conveyed land as an historic site and 
interpretive center for the Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail.
    (d) Discontinuance of Use.--If Missouri River Basin Lewis and Clark 
Interpretive Trail and Visitor Center Foundation, Inc. determines to 
discontinue use of the land conveyed under subsection (a) as an 
historic site and interpretive center for the Lewis and Clark National 
Historic Trail, the Missouri River Basin Lewis and Clark Interpretive 
Trail and Visitor Center Foundation, Inc. shall convey lands back to 
the Secretary without consideration.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
under subsection (a) or the conveyance, if any, under subsection (d) as 
the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the 
United States. Through a written agreement with the Foundation, the 
National Park Service shall ensure that the operation of the land 
conveyed under subsection (a) is in accordance with National Park 
Service standards for preservation, maintenance, and interpretation.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--To assist with the operation 
of the historic site and interpretive center, there is authorized to be 
appropriated $150,000 per year for a period not to exceed 10 years.

SEC. 343. LEWIS AND CLARK NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL EXTENSION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eastern legacy sites.--The term ``Eastern Legacy 
        sites'' means the sites associated with the preparation or 
        return phases of the Lewis and Clark expedition, commonly known 
        as the ``Eastern Legacy'', including sites in Virginia, the 
        District of Columbia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, West 
        Virginia, Ohio, Kentucky, Tennessee, Indiana, Missouri, and 
        Illinois. This includes the routes followed by Meriwether Lewis 
        and William Clark, whether independently or together.
            (2) Trail.--The term ``Trail'' means the Lewis and Clark 
        National Historic Trail designated by section 5(a)(6) of the 
        National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(6)).
    (b) Special Resource Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall complete a special 
        resource study of the Eastern Legacy sites to determine--
                    (A) the suitability and feasibility of adding these 
                sites to the Trail; and
                    (B) the methods and means for the protection and 
                interpretation of these sites by the National Park 
                Service, other Federal, State, or local government 
                entities or private or non-profit organizations.
            (2) Study requirements.--The Secretary shall conduct the 
        study in accordance with section 5(b) of the National Trails 
        System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(b)).
    (c) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds 
are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the Senate a report containing--
            (1) the results of the study; and
            (2) any recommendations of the Secretary.

SEC. 344. WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATION, EIGHTMILE RIVER, 
              CONNECTICUT.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Eightmile River Wild and Scenic River Study Act of 
        2001 (Public Law 107-65; 115 Stat. 484) authorized the study of 
        the Eightmile River in the State of Connecticut from its 
        headwaters downstream to its confluence with the Connecticut 
        River for potential inclusion in the National Wild and Scenic 
        Rivers System.
            (2) The segments of the Eightmile River covered by the 
        study are in a free-flowing condition, and the outstanding 
        resource values of the river segments include the cultural 
        landscape, water quality, watershed hydrology, unique species 
        and natural communities, geology, and watershed ecosystem.
            (3) The Eightmile River Wild and Scenic Study Committee has 
        determined that--
                    (A) the outstanding resource values of these river 
                segments depend on sustaining the integrity and quality 
                of the Eightmile River watershed;
                    (B) these resource values are manifest within the 
                entire watershed; and
                    (C) the watershed as a whole, including its 
                protection, is itself intrinsically important to this 
                designation.
            (4) The Eightmile River Wild and Scenic Study Committee 
        took a watershed approach in studying and recommending 
        management options for the river segments and the Eightmile 
        River watershed as a whole.
            (5) During the study, the Eightmile River Wild and Scenic 
        Study Committee, with assistance from the National Park 
        Service, prepared a comprehensive management plan for the 
        Eightmile River watershed, dated December 8, 2005 (in this 
        section referred to as the ``Eightmile River Watershed 
        Management Plan''), which establishes objectives, standards, 
        and action programs that will ensure long-term protection of 
        the outstanding values of the river and compatible management 
        of the land and water resources of the Eightmile River and its 
        watershed, without Federal management of affected lands not 
        owned by the United States.
            (6) The Eightmile River Wild and Scenic Study Committee 
        voted in favor of inclusion of the Eightmile River in the 
        National Wild and Scenic Rivers System and included this 
        recommendation as an integral part of the Eightmile River 
        Watershed Management Plan.
            (7) The residents of the towns lying along the Eightmile 
        River and comprising most of its watershed (Salem, East Haddam, 
        and Lyme, Connecticut), as well as the Boards of Selectmen and 
        Land Use Commissions of these towns, voted to endorse the 
        Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan and to seek 
        designation of the river as a component of the National Wild 
        and Scenic Rivers System.
            (8) The State of Connecticut General Assembly enacted 
        Public Act 05-18 to endorse the Eightmile River Watershed 
        Management Plan and to seek designation of the river as a 
        component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
    (b) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (167) (relating to the 
        Musconetcong River, New Jersey) as paragraph (169);
            (2) by designating the undesignated paragraph relating to 
        the White Salmon River, Washington, as paragraph (167);
            (3) by designating the undesignated paragraph relating to 
        the Black Butte River, California, as paragraph (168); and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(170) Eightmile River, Connecticut.--Segments of the main stem 
and specified tributaries of the Eightmile River in the State of 
Connecticut, totaling approximately 25.3 miles, to be administered by 
the Secretary of the Interior as follows:
            ``(A) The entire 10.8-mile segment of the main stem, 
        starting at its confluence with Lake Hayward Brook to its 
        confluence with the Connecticut River at the mouth of Hamburg 
        Cove, as a scenic river.
            ``(B) The 8.0-mile segment of the East Branch of the 
        Eightmile River starting at Witch Meadow Road to its confluence 
        with the main stem of the Eightmile River, as a scenic river.
            ``(C) The 3.9-mile segment of Harris Brook starting with 
        the confluence of an unnamed stream lying 0.74 miles due east 
        of the intersection of Hartford Road (State Route 85) and Round 
        Hill Road to its confluence with the East Branch of the 
        Eightmile River, as a scenic river.
            ``(D) The 1.9-mile segment of Beaver Brook starting at its 
        confluence with Cedar Pond Brook to its confluence with the 
        main stem of the Eightmile River, as a scenic river.
            ``(E) The 0.7-mile segment of Falls Brook from its 
        confluence with Tisdale Brook to its confluence with the main 
        stem of the Eightmile River at Hamburg Cove, as a scenic 
        river.''.
    (c) Management.--The segments of the main stem and certain 
tributaries of the Eightmile River in the State of Connecticut 
designated as components of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System 
by the amendment made by subsection (b) (in this section referred to as 
the ``Eightmile River'') shall be managed in accordance with the 
Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan and such amendments to the 
plan as the Secretary of the Interior determines are consistent with 
this section. The Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan is deemed 
to satisfy the requirements for a comprehensive management plan 
required by section 3(d) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
1274(d)).
    (d) Committee.--The Secretary of the Interior shall coordinate the 
management responsibilities of the Secretary with regard to the 
Eightmile River with the Eightmile River Coordinating Committee, as 
specified in the Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan.
    (e) Cooperative Agreements.--In order to provide for the long-term 
protection, preservation, and enhancement of the Eightmile River, the 
Secretary of the Interior may enter into cooperative agreements 
pursuant to sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(e), 1282(b)(1)) with the State of Connecticut, the 
towns of Salem, Lyme, and East Haddam, Connecticut, and appropriate 
local planning and environmental organizations. All cooperative 
agreements authorized by this subsection shall be consistent with the 
Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan and may include provisions 
for financial or other assistance from the United States.
    (f) Relation to National Park System.--Notwithstanding section 
10(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(c)), the 
Eightmile River shall not be administered as part of the National Park 
System or be subject to regulations which govern the National Park 
System.
    (g) Land Management.--The zoning ordinances adopted by the towns of 
Salem, East Haddam, and Lyme, Connecticut, in effect as of December 8, 
2005, including provisions for conservation of floodplains, wetlands, 
and watercourses associated with the segments, are deemed to satisfy 
the standards and requirements of section 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic 
Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1277 (c)). For the purpose of section 6(c) of 
that Act, such towns shall be deemed ``villages'' and the provisions of 
that section, which prohibit Federal acquisition of lands by 
condemnation, shall apply to the segments designated by subsection (b). 
The authority of the Secretary to acquire lands for the purposes of 
this section shall be limited to acquisition by donation or acquisition 
with the consent of the owner thereof, and shall be subject to the 
additional criteria set forth in the Eightmile River Watershed 
Management Plan.
    (h) Watershed Approach.--
            (1) In general.--In furtherance of the watershed approach 
        to resource preservation and enhancement articulated in the 
        Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan, the tributaries of 
        the Eightmile River watershed specified in paragraph (2) are 
        recognized as integral to the protection and enhancement of the 
        Eightmile River and its watershed.
            (2) Covered tributaries.--Paragraph (1) applies with 
        respect to Beaver Brook, Big Brook, Burnhams Brook, Cedar Pond 
        Brook, Cranberry Meadow Brook, Early Brook, Falls Brook, Fraser 
        Brook, Harris Brook, Hedge Brook, Lake Hayward Brook, Malt 
        House Brook, Muddy Brook, Ransom Brook, Rattlesnake Ledge 
        Brook, Shingle Mill Brook, Strongs Brook, Tisdale Brook, Witch 
        Meadow Brook, and all other perennial streams within the 
        Eightmile River watershed.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section and 
the amendment made by subsection (b).

     Subtitle F--Denali National Park and Alaska Railroad Exchange

SEC. 351. DENALI NATIONAL PARK AND ALASKA RAILROAD CORPORATION 
              EXCHANGE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Corporation.--The term ``Corporation'' means the Alaska 
        Railroad Corporation owned by the State of Alaska.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (b) Exchange.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Easement expanded.--The Secretary is authorized 
                to grant to the Alaska Railroad Corporation an 
                exclusive-use easement on land that is identified by 
                the Secretary within Denali National Park for the 
                purpose of providing a location to the Corporation for 
                construction, maintenance, and on-going operation of 
                track and associated support facilities for turning 
                railroad trains around near Denali Park Station.
                    (B) Easement relinquished.--In exchange for the 
                easement granted in subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
                shall require the relinquishment of certain portions of 
                the Corporation's existing exclusive use easement 
                within the boundary of Denali National Park.
            (2) Conditions of the exchange.--
                    (A) Equal exchange.--The exchange of easements 
                under this section shall be on an approximately equal-
                acre basis.
                    (B) Total acres.--The easement granted under 
                paragraph (1)(A) shall not exceed 25 acres.
                    (C) Interests conveyed.--The easement conveyed to 
                the Alaska Railroad Corporation by the Secretary under 
                this section shall be under the same terms as the 
                exclusive use easement granted to the Railroad in 
                Denali National Park in the Deed for Exclusive Use 
                Easement and Railroad Related Improvements filed in 
                Book 33, pages 985-994 of the Nenana Recording 
                District, Alaska, pursuant to the Alaska Railroad 
                Transfer Act of 1982 (45 U.S.C. 1201 et seq.). The 
                easement relinquished by the Alaska Railroad 
                Corporation to the United States under this section 
                shall, with respect to the portion being exchanged, be 
                the full title and interest received by the Alaska 
                Railroad in the Deed for Exclusive Use Easement and 
                Railroad Related Improvements filed in Book 33, pages 
                985-994 of the Nenana Recording District, Alaska, 
                pursuant to the Alaska Railroad Transfer Act of 1982 
                (45 U.S.C. 1201 et seq.).
                    (D) Costs.--The Alaska Railroad shall pay all costs 
                associated with the exchange under this section, 
                including the costs of compliance with the National 
                Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                seq.), the costs of any surveys, and other reasonable 
                costs.
                    (E) Land to be part of wilderness.--The land 
                underlying any easement relinquished to the United 
                States under this section that is adjacent to 
                designated wilderness is hereby designated as 
                wilderness and added to the Denali Wilderness, the 
                boundaries of which are modified accordingly, and shall 
                be managed in accordance with applicable provisions of 
                the Wilderness Act (78 Stat. 892) and the Alaska 
                National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980 (94 
                Stat. 2371).
                    (F) Other terms and conditions.--The Secretary 
                shall require any additional terms and conditions under 
                this section that the Secretary determines to be 
                appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
                States and of Denali National Park.

Subtitle G--National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Amendments

SEC. 361. AUTHORIZING APPROPRIATIONS FOR SPECIFIC PURPOSES.

    (a) In General.--The National Underground Railroad Network to 
Freedom Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 469l et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by striking section 3(d);
            (2) by striking section 4(d); and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) Amounts.--There are authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this Act $2,500,000 for each fiscal year, to be allocated as 
follows:
            ``(1) $2,000,000 is to be used for the purposes of section 
        3.
            ``(2) $500,000 is to be used for the purposes of section 4.
    ``(b) Restrictions.--No amounts may be appropriated for the 
purposes of this Act except to the Secretary for carrying out the 
responsibilities of the Secretary as set forth in this Act.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect at the beginning of the fiscal year immediately following 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

                Subtitle H--Grand Canyon Subcontractors

SEC. 371. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) IDIQ.--The term ``IDIQ'' means an Indefinite Deliver/
        Indefinite Quantity contract.
            (2) Park.--The term ``park'' means Grand Canyon National 
        Park.
            (3) PGI.--The term ``PGI'' means Pacific General, Inc.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National 
        Park Service.

SEC. 372. AUTHORIZATION.

    The Secretary is authorized, subject to the appropriation of such 
funds as may be necessary, to pay the amount owed to the subcontractors 
of PGI for work performed at the park under an IDIQ with PGI between 
fiscal years 2002 and 2003, provided that--
            (1) the primary contract between PGI and the National Park 
        Service is terminated;
            (2) the amount owed to the subcontractors is verified;
            (3) all reasonable legal avenues or recourse have been 
        exhausted by the subcontractors to recoup amounts owed directly 
        from PGI; and
            (4) the subcontractors provide a written statement that 
        payment of the amount verified in paragraph (2) represents 
        payment in full by the United States for all work performed at 
        the park under the IDIQ with PGI between fiscal years 2002 and 
        2003.

                   TITLE IV--NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS

   Subtitle A--Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area

SEC. 401. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this subtitle include--
            (1) to recognize the national importance of the natural and 
        cultural legacies of the area, as demonstrated in the study 
        entitled ``The Journey Through Hallowed Ground National 
        Heritage Area Feasibility Study'' dated September 2006;
            (2) to preserve, support, conserve, and interpret the 
        legacy of the American history created along the National 
        Heritage Area;
            (3) to promote heritage, cultural and recreational tourism 
        and to develop educational and cultural programs for visitors 
        and the general public;
            (4) to recognize and interpret important events and 
        geographic locations representing key developments in the 
        creation of America, including Native American, Colonial 
        American, European American, and African American heritage;
            (5) to recognize and interpret the effect of the Civil War 
        on the civilian population of the National Heritage Area during 
        the war and post-war reconstruction period;
            (6) to enhance a cooperative management framework to assist 
        the Commonwealth of Virginia, the State of Maryland, the 
        Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the State of West Virginia, and 
        their units of local government, the private sector, and 
        citizens residing in the National Heritage Area in conserving, 
        supporting, enhancing, and interpreting the significant 
        historic, cultural and recreational sites in the National 
        Heritage Area; and
            (7) to provide appropriate linkages among units of the 
        National Park System within and surrounding the National 
        Heritage Area, to protect, enhance, and interpret resources 
        outside of park boundaries.

SEC. 402. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle--
            (1) National heritage area.--The term ``National Heritage 
        Area'' means the Journey Through Hallowed Ground National 
        Heritage Area established in this subtitle.
            (2) Local coordinating entity.--The term ``local 
        coordinating entity'' means the Journey Through Hallowed Ground 
        Partnership, a Virginia non-profit, which is hereby designated 
        by Congress--
                    (A) to develop, in partnership with others, the 
                management plan for the National Heritage Area; and
                    (B) to act as a catalyst for the implementation of 
                projects and programs among diverse partners in the 
                National Heritage Area.
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the plan prepared by the local coordinating entity for the 
        National Heritage Area that specifies actions, policies, 
        strategies, performance goals, and recommendations to meet the 
        goals of the National Heritage Area, in accordance with this 
        subtitle.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 403. DESIGNATION OF THE JOURNEY THROUGH HALLOWED GROUND NATIONAL 
              HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established the Journey Through 
Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--
            (1) In general.--The Heritage Area shall consist of the 
        175-mile region generally following the Route 15 corridor and 
        surrounding areas from Adams County, Pennsylvania, through 
        Frederick County, Maryland, including the Heart of the Civil 
        War Maryland State Heritage Area, looping through Brunswick, 
        Maryland, to Harpers Ferry, West Virginia, back through Loudoun 
        County, Virginia, to the Route 15 corridor and surrounding 
        areas encompassing portions of Loudoun and Prince William 
        Counties, Virginia, then Fauquier County, Virginia, portions of 
        Spotsylvania and Madison Counties, Virginia, and Culpepper, 
        Rappahannock, Orange, and Albemarle Counties, Virginia.
            (2) Map.--The boundaries of the National Heritage Area 
        shall include all of those lands and interests as generally 
        depicted on the map titled ``Journey Through Hallowed Ground 
        National Heritage Area'', numbered P90/80,000, and dated 
        October 2006. The map shall be on file and available to the 
        public in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service 
        and the local coordinating entity.

SEC. 404. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) Requirements.--The management plan for the National Heritage 
Area shall--
            (1) describe comprehensive policies, goals, strategies, and 
        recommendations for telling the story of the heritage of the 
        area covered by the National Heritage Area and encouraging 
        long-term resource protection, enhancement, interpretation, 
        funding, management, and development of the National Heritage 
        Area;
            (2) include a description of actions and commitments that 
        Federal, State, Tribal, and local governments, private 
        organizations, and citizens will take to protect, enhance, 
        interpret, fund, manage, and develop the natural, historical, 
        cultural, educational, scenic, and recreational resources of 
        the National Heritage Area;
            (3) specify existing and potential sources of funding or 
        economic development strategies to protect, enhance, interpret, 
        fund, manage, and develop the National Heritage Area;
            (4) include an inventory of the natural, historical, 
        cultural, educational, scenic, and recreational resources of 
        the National Heritage Area related to the national importance 
        and themes of the National Heritage Area that should be 
        protected, enhanced, interpreted, managed, funded, and 
        developed;
            (5) recommend policies and strategies for resource 
        management, including the development of intergovernmental and 
        interagency agreements to protect, enhance, interpret, fund, 
        manage, and develop the natural, historical, cultural, 
        educational, scenic, and recreational resources of the National 
        Heritage Area;
            (6) describe a program for implementation for the 
        management plan, including--
                    (A) performance goals;
                    (B) plans for resource protection, enhancement, 
                interpretation, funding, management, and development; 
                and
                    (C) specific commitments for implementation that 
                have been made by the local coordinating entity or any 
                Federal, State, Tribal, or local government agency, 
                organization, business, or individual;
            (7) include an analysis of, and recommendations for, means 
        by which Federal, State, Tribal, and local programs may best be 
        coordinated (including the role of the National Park Service 
        and other Federal agencies associated with the National 
        Heritage Area) to further the purposes of this subtitle; and
            (8) include a business plan that--
                    (A) describes the role, operation, financing, and 
                functions of the local coordinating entity and of each 
                of the major activities contained in the management 
                plan; and
                    (B) provides adequate assurances that the local 
                coordinating entity has the partnerships and financial 
                and other resources necessary to implement the 
                management plan for the National Heritage Area.
    (b) Deadline.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date on 
        which funds are first made available to develop the management 
        plan after designation as a National Heritage Area, the local 
        coordinating entity shall submit the management plan to the 
        Secretary for approval.
            (2) Termination of funding.--If the management plan is not 
        submitted to the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (1), 
        the local coordinating entity shall not qualify for any 
        additional financial assistance under this subtitle until such 
        time as the management plan is submitted to and approved by the 
        Secretary.
    (c) Approval of Management Plan.--
            (1) Review.--Not later than 180 days after receiving the 
        plan, the Secretary shall review and approve or disapprove the 
        management plan for a National Heritage Area on the basis of 
        the criteria established under paragraph (3).
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with the 
        Governor of each State in which the National Heritage Area is 
        located before approving a management plan for the National 
        Heritage Area.
            (3) Criteria for approval.--In determining whether to 
        approve a management plan for a National Heritage Area, the 
        Secretary shall consider whether--
                    (A) the local coordinating entity represents the 
                diverse interests of the National Heritage Area, 
                including Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
                governments, natural, and historic resource protection 
                organizations, educational institutions, businesses, 
                recreational organizations, community residents, and 
                private property owners;
                    (B) the local coordinating entity--
                            (i) has afforded adequate opportunity for 
                        public and Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
                        governmental involvement (including through 
                        workshops and hearings) in the preparation of 
                        the management plan; and
                            (ii) provides for at least semiannual 
                        public meetings to ensure adequate 
                        implementation of the management plan;
                    (C) the resource protection, enhancement, 
                interpretation, funding, management, and development 
                strategies described in the management plan, if 
                implemented, would adequately protect, enhance, 
                interpret, fund, manage, and develop the natural, 
                historic, cultural, educational, scenic, and 
                recreational resources of the National Heritage Area;
                    (D) the management plan would not adversely affect 
                any activities authorized on Federal land under public 
                land laws or land use plans;
                    (E) the local coordinating entity has demonstrated 
                the financial capability, in partnership with others, 
                to carry out the plan;
                    (F) the Secretary has received adequate assurances 
                from the appropriate State, Tribal, and local officials 
                whose support is needed to ensure the effective 
                implementation of the State, Tribal, and local elements 
                of the management plan; and
                    (G) the management plan demonstrates partnerships 
                among the local coordinating entity, Federal, State, 
                Tribal, and local governments, regional planning 
                organizations, nonprofit organizations, or private 
                sector parties for implementation of the management 
                plan.
            (4) Disapproval.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Secretary disapproves the 
                management plan, the Secretary--
                            (i) shall advise the local coordinating 
                        entity in writing of the reasons for the 
                        disapproval; and
                            (ii) may make recommendations to the local 
                        coordinating entity for revisions to the 
                        management plan.
                    (B) Deadline.--Not later than 180 days after 
                receiving a revised management plan, the Secretary 
                shall approve or disapprove the revised management 
                plan.
            (5) Amendments.--
                    (A) In general.--An amendment to the management 
                plan that substantially alters the purposes of the 
                National Heritage Area shall be reviewed by the 
                Secretary and approved or disapproved in the same 
                manner as the original management plan.
                    (B) Implementation.--The local coordinating entity 
                shall not use Federal funds authorized by this subtitle 
                to implement an amendment to the management plan until 
                the Secretary approves the amendment.
            (6) Authorities.--The Secretary may--
                    (A) provide technical assistance under the 
                authority of this subtitle for the development and 
                implementation of the management plan; and
                    (B) enter into cooperative agreements with 
                interested parties to carry out this subtitle.

SEC. 405. EVALUATION; REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 3 years before the date on which 
authority for Federal funding terminates for the National Heritage Area 
under this subtitle, the Secretary shall--
            (1) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments of the 
        National Heritage Area; and
            (2) prepare a report in accordance with subsection (c).
    (b) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under subsection (a)(1) 
shall--
            (1) assess the progress of the local coordinating entity 
        with respect to--
                    (A) accomplishing the purposes of the authorizing 
                legislation for the National Heritage Area; and
                    (B) achieving the goals and objectives of the 
                approved management plan for the National Heritage 
                Area;
            (2) analyze the Federal, State, Tribal, local, and private 
        investments in the National Heritage Area to determine the 
        impact of the investments; and
            (3) review the management structure, partnership 
        relationships, and funding of the National Heritage Area for 
        purposes of identifying the critical components for 
        sustainability of the National Heritage Area.
    (c) Report.--Based on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
(a)(1), the Secretary shall submit a report to the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the United States House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate. 
The report shall include recommendations for the future role of the 
National Park Service, if any, with respect to the National Heritage 
Area.

SEC. 406. LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.

    (a) Duties.--To further the purposes of the National Heritage Area, 
the Journey Through Hallowed Ground Partnership, as the local 
coordinating entity, shall--
            (1) prepare a management plan for the National Heritage 
        Area, and submit the management plan to the Secretary, in 
        accordance with this subtitle;
            (2) submit an annual report to the Secretary for each 
        fiscal year for which the local coordinating entity receives 
        Federal funds under this subtitle, specifying--
                    (A) the specific performance goals and 
                accomplishments of the local coordinating entity;
                    (B) the expenses and income of the local 
                coordinating entity;
                    (C) the amounts and sources of matching funds;
                    (D) the amounts leveraged with Federal funds and 
                sources of the leveraging; and
                    (E) grants made to any other entities during the 
                fiscal year;
            (3) make available for audit for each fiscal year for which 
        the local coordinating entity receives Federal funds under this 
        subtitle, all information pertaining to the expenditure of the 
        funds and any matching funds; and
            (4) encourage economic viability and sustainability that is 
        consistent with the purposes of the National Heritage Area.
    (b) Authorities.--For the purposes of preparing and implementing 
the approved management plan for the National Heritage Area, the local 
coordinating entity may use Federal funds made available under this 
subtitle to--
            (1) make grants to political jurisdictions, nonprofit 
        organizations, and other parties within the National Heritage 
        Area;
            (2) enter into cooperative agreements with or provide 
        technical assistance to political jurisdictions, nonprofit 
        organizations, Federal agencies, and other interested parties;
            (3) hire and compensate staff, including individuals with 
        expertise in--
                    (A) natural, historical, cultural, educational, 
                scenic, and recreational resource conservation;
                    (B) economic and community development; and
                    (C) heritage planning;
            (4) obtain funds or services from any source, including 
        other Federal programs;
            (5) contract for goods or services; and
            (6) support activities of partners and any other activities 
        that further the purposes of the National Heritage Area and are 
        consistent with the approved management plan.
    (c) Prohibition on Acquisition of Real Property.--The local 
coordinating entity may not use Federal funds authorized under this 
subtitle to acquire any interest in real property.

SEC. 407. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) In General.--Nothing in this subtitle affects the authority of 
a Federal agency to provide technical or financial assistance under any 
other law.
    (b) Consultation and Coordination.--The head of any Federal agency 
planning to conduct activities that may have an impact on a National 
Heritage Area is encouraged to consult and coordinate the activities 
with the Secretary and the local coordinating entity to the maximum 
extent practicable.
    (c) Other Federal Agencies.--Nothing in this subtitle--
            (1) modifies, alters, or amends any law or regulation 
        authorizing a Federal agency to manage Federal land under the 
        jurisdiction of the Federal agency;
            (2) limits the discretion of a Federal land manager to 
        implement an approved land use plan within the boundaries of a 
        National Heritage Area; or
            (3) modifies, alters, or amends any authorized use of 
        Federal land under the jurisdiction of a Federal agency.

SEC. 408. PRIVATE PROPERTY AND REGULATORY PROTECTIONS.

    Nothing in this subtitle--
            (1) abridges the rights of any property owner (whether 
        public or private), including the right to refrain from 
        participating in any plan, project, program, or activity 
        conducted within the National Heritage Area;
            (2) requires any property owner to permit public access 
        (including access by Federal, State, Tribal, or local agencies) 
        to the property of the property owner, or to modify public 
        access or use of property of the property owner under any other 
        Federal, State, Tribal, or local law;
            (3) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, approved 
        land use plan, or other regulatory authority (such as the 
        authority to make safety improvements or increase the capacity 
        of existing roads or to construct new roads) of any Federal, 
        State, Tribal, or local agency, or conveys any land use or 
        other regulatory authority to any local coordinating entity, 
        including but not necessarily limited to development and 
        management of energy or water or water-related infrastructure;
            (4) authorizes or implies the reservation or appropriation 
        of water or water rights;
            (5) diminishes the authority of the State to manage fish 
        and wildlife, including the regulation of fishing and hunting 
        within the National Heritage Area; or
            (6) creates any liability, or affects any liability under 
        any other law, of any private property owner with respect to 
        any person injured on the private property.

SEC. 409. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Subject to subsection (b), 
there are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subtitle not 
more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Funds so appropriated shall 
remain available until expended.
    (b) Limitation on Total Amounts Appropriated.--Not more than 
$15,000,000 may be appropriated to carry out this subtitle.
    (c) Cost-Sharing Requirement.--The Federal share of the total cost 
of any activity under this subtitle shall be not more than 50 percent; 
the non-Federal contribution may be in the form of in-kind 
contributions of goods or services fairly valued.

SEC. 410. USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES.

    Nothing in this subtitle shall preclude the local coordinating 
entity from using Federal funds available under other laws for the 
purposes for which those funds were authorized.

SEC. 411. SUNSET FOR GRANTS AND OTHER ASSISTANCE.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide financial assistance 
under this subtitle terminates on the date that is 15 years after the 
date of enactment of this subtitle.

            Subtitle B--Niagara Falls National Heritage Area

SEC. 421. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this subtitle include--
            (1) to recognize the national importance of the natural and 
        cultural legacies of the area, as demonstrated in the National 
        Park Service study report entitled ``Niagara National Heritage 
        Area Study'' dated 2005;
            (2) to preserve, support, conserve, and interpret the 
        natural, scenic, cultural, and historic resources within the 
        National Heritage Area;
            (3) to promote heritage, cultural, and recreational tourism 
        and to develop educational and cultural programs for visitors 
        and the general public;
            (4) to recognize and interpret important events and 
        geographic locations representing key developments in American 
        history and culture, including Native American, Colonial 
        American, European American, and African American heritage;
            (5) to enhance a cooperative management framework to assist 
        State, local, and Tribal governments, the private sector, and 
        citizens residing in the National Heritage Area in conserving, 
        supporting, enhancing, and interpreting the significant 
        historic, cultural, and recreational sites in the National 
        Heritage Area;
            (6) to conserve and interpret the history of the 
        development of hydroelectric power in the United States and its 
        role in developing the American economy; and
            (7) to provide appropriate linkages among units of the 
        National Park System within and surrounding the National 
        Heritage Area, to protect, enhance, and interpret resources 
        outside of park boundaries.

SEC. 422. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Niagara 
        Falls National Heritage Area Commission established under this 
        subtitle.
            (2) Governor.--The term ``Governor'' means the Governor of 
        the State of New York.
            (3) Local coordinating entity.--The term ``local 
        coordinating entity'' means the local coordinating entity for 
        the National Heritage Area designated pursuant to this 
        subtitle.
            (4) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the plan prepared by the local coordinating entity for the 
        National Heritage Area that specifies actions, policies, 
        strategies, performance goals, and recommendations to meet the 
        goals of the National Heritage Area, in accordance with this 
        subtitle.
            (5) National heritage area.--The term ``National Heritage 
        Area'' means the Niagara Falls National Heritage Area 
        established in this subtitle.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 423. DESIGNATION OF THE NIAGARA FALLS NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established the Niagara Falls 
National Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--
            (1) In general.--The National Heritage Area shall consist 
        of the area from the western boundary of the town of 
        Wheatfield, New York, extending to the mouth of the Niagara 
        River on Lake Ontario, including the city of Niagara Falls, New 
        York, the villages of Youngstown and Lewiston, New York, land 
        and water within the boundaries of the Heritage Area in Niagara 
        County, New York, and any additional thematically related sites 
        within Erie and Niagara Counties, New York, that are identified 
        in the management plan developed under this subtitle.
            (2) Map.--The boundaries of the National Heritage Area 
        shall be as generally depicted on the map titled ``Niagara 
        Falls National Heritage Area,'' and numbered P76/80,000 and 
        dated July, 2006. The map shall be on file and available to the 
        public in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service 
        and the local coordinating entity.

SEC. 424. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) Requirements.--The management plan for the National Heritage 
Area shall--
            (1) describe comprehensive policies, goals, strategies, and 
        recommendations for telling the story of the heritage of the 
        area covered by the National Heritage Area and encouraging 
        long-term resource protection, enhancement, interpretation, 
        funding, management, and development of the National Heritage 
        Area;
            (2) include a description of actions and commitments that 
        Federal, State, Tribal, and local governments, private 
        organizations, and citizens will take to protect, enhance, 
        interpret, fund, manage, and develop the natural, historical, 
        cultural, educational, scenic, and recreational resources of 
        the National Heritage Area;
            (3) specify existing and potential sources of funding or 
        economic development strategies to protect, enhance, interpret, 
        fund, manage, and develop the National Heritage Area;
            (4) include an inventory of the natural, historical, 
        cultural, educational, scenic, and recreational resources of 
        the National Heritage Area related to the national importance 
        and themes of the National Heritage Area that should be 
        protected, enhanced, interpreted, managed, funded, and 
        developed;
            (5) recommend policies and strategies for resource 
        management, including the development of intergovernmental and 
        interagency agreements to protect, enhance, interpret, fund, 
        manage, and develop the natural, historical, cultural, 
        educational, scenic, and recreational resources of the National 
        Heritage Area;
            (6) describe a program for implementation for the 
        management plan, including--
                    (A) performance goals;
                    (B) plans for resource protection, enhancement, 
                interpretation, funding, management, and development; 
                and
                    (C) specific commitments for implementation that 
                have been made by the local coordinating entity or any 
                Federal, State, Tribal, or local government agency, 
                organization, business, or individual;
            (7) include an analysis of, and recommendations for, means 
        by which Federal, State, Tribal, and local programs may best be 
        coordinated (including the role of the National Park Service 
        and other Federal agencies associated with the National 
        Heritage Area) to further the purposes of this subtitle; and
            (8) include a business plan that--
                    (A) describes the role, operation, financing, and 
                functions of the local coordinating entity and of each 
                of the major activities contained in the management 
                plan; and
                    (B) provides adequate assurances that the local 
                coordinating entity has the partnerships and financial 
                and other resources necessary to implement the 
                management plan for the National Heritage Area.
    (b) Deadline.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date on 
        which funds are first made available to develop the management 
        plan after designation as a National Heritage Area, the local 
        coordinating entity shall submit the management plan to the 
        Secretary for approval.
            (2) Termination of funding.--If the management plan is not 
        submitted to the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (1), 
        the local coordinating entity shall not qualify for any 
        additional financial assistance under this subtitle until such 
        time as the management plan is submitted to and approved by the 
        Secretary.
    (c) Approval of Management Plan.--
            (1) Review.--Not later than 180 days after receiving the 
        plan, the Secretary shall review and approve or disapprove the 
        management plan for a National Heritage Area on the basis of 
        the criteria established under paragraph (3).
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with the 
        Governor before approving a management plan for the National 
        Heritage Area.
            (3) Criteria for approval.--In determining whether to 
        approve a management plan for a National Heritage Area, the 
        Secretary shall consider whether--
                    (A) the local coordinating entity represents the 
                diverse interests of the National Heritage Area, 
                including Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
                governments, natural and historic resource protection 
                organizations, educational institutions, businesses, 
                recreational organizations, community residents, and 
                private property owners;
                    (B) the local coordinating entity--
                            (i) has afforded adequate opportunity for 
                        public and Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
                        governmental involvement (including through 
                        workshops and hearings) in the preparation of 
                        the management plan; and
                            (ii) provides for at least semiannual 
                        public meetings to ensure adequate 
                        implementation of the management plan;
                    (C) the resource protection, enhancement, 
                interpretation, funding, management, and development 
                strategies described in the management plan, if 
                implemented, would adequately protect, enhance, 
                interpret, fund, manage, and develop the natural, 
                historic, cultural, educational, scenic, and 
                recreational resources of the National Heritage Area;
                    (D) the management plan would not adversely affect 
                any activities authorized on Federal land under public 
                land laws or land use plans;
                    (E) the local coordinating entity has demonstrated 
                the financial capability, in partnership with others, 
                to carry out the plan;
                    (F) the Secretary has received adequate assurances 
                from the appropriate State, Tribal, and local officials 
                whose support is needed to ensure the effective 
                implementation of the State, Tribal, and local elements 
                of the management plan; and
                    (G) the management plan demonstrates partnerships 
                among the local coordinating entity, Federal, State, 
                Tribal, and local governments, regional planning 
                organizations, nonprofit organizations, or private 
                sector parties for implementation of the management 
                plan.
            (4) Disapproval.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Secretary disapproves the 
                management plan, the Secretary--
                            (i) shall advise the local coordinating 
                        entity in writing of the reasons for the 
                        disapproval; and
                            (ii) may make recommendations to the local 
                        coordinating entity for revisions to the 
                        management plan.
                    (B) Deadline.--Not later than 180 days after 
                receiving a revised management plan, the Secretary 
                shall approve or disapprove the revised management 
                plan.
            (5) Amendments.--
                    (A) In general.--An amendment to the management 
                plan that substantially alters the purposes of the 
                National Heritage Area shall be reviewed by the 
                Secretary and approved or disapproved in the same 
                manner as the original management plan.
                    (B) Implementation.--The local coordinating entity 
                shall not use Federal funds authorized by this subtitle 
                to implement an amendment to the management plan until 
                the Secretary approves the amendment.
            (6) Authorities.--The Secretary may--
                    (A) provide technical assistance under the 
                authority of this subtitle for the development and 
                implementation of the management plan; and
                    (B) enter into cooperative agreements with 
                interested parties to carry out this subtitle.

SEC. 425. EVALUATION; REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 3 years before the date on which 
authority for Federal funding terminates for the National Heritage Area 
under this subtitle the Secretary shall--
            (1) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments of the 
        National Heritage Area; and
            (2) prepare a report in accordance with subsection (c).
    (b) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under subsection (a)(1) 
shall--
            (1) assess the progress of the local coordinating entity 
        with respect to--
                    (A) accomplishing the purposes of the authorizing 
                legislation for the National Heritage Area; and
                    (B) achieving the goals and objectives of the 
                approved management plan for the National Heritage 
                Area;
            (2) analyze the Federal, State, Tribal, and local, and 
        private investments in the National Heritage Area to determine 
        the impact of the investments; and
            (3) review the management structure, partnership 
        relationships, and funding of the National Heritage Area for 
        purposes of identifying the critical components for 
        sustainability of the National Heritage Area.
    (c) Report.--Based on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
(a)(1), the Secretary shall submit a report to the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the United States House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate. 
The report shall include recommendations for the future role of the 
National Park Service, if any, with respect to the National Heritage 
Area.

SEC. 426. LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.

    (a) Designation.--The local coordinating entity for the Heritage 
Area shall be--
            (1) for the 5-year period beginning on the date of 
        enactment of this subtitle, the Commission; and
            (2) on expiration of the 5-year period described in 
        paragraph (1), a private nonprofit or governmental organization 
        designated by the Commission.
    (b) Duties.--To further the purposes of the National Heritage Area, 
the local coordinating entity, shall--
            (1) prepare a management plan for the National Heritage 
        Area, and submit the management plan to the Secretary, in 
        accordance with this subtitle;
            (2) submit an annual report to the Secretary for each 
        fiscal year for which the local coordinating entity receives 
        Federal funds under this subtitle, specifying--
                    (A) the specific performance goals and 
                accomplishments of the local coordinating entity;
                    (B) the expenses and income of the local 
                coordinating entity;
                    (C) the amounts and sources of matching funds;
                    (D) the amounts leveraged with Federal funds and 
                sources of the leveraging; and
                    (E) grants made to any other entities during the 
                fiscal year;
            (3) make available for audit for each fiscal year for which 
        the local coordinating entity receives Federal funds under this 
        subtitle, all information pertaining to the expenditure of the 
        funds and any matching funds;
            (4) encourage economic viability and sustainability that is 
        consistent with the purposes of the National Heritage Area; and
            (5) coordinate projects, activities, and programs with the 
        Erie Canalway National Heritage Corridor.
    (c) Authorities.--For the purposes of preparing and implementing 
the approved management plan for the National Heritage Area, the local 
coordinating entity may use Federal funds made available under this 
subtitle to--
            (1) make grants to political jurisdictions, nonprofit 
        organizations, and other parties within the National Heritage 
        Area;
            (2) enter into cooperative agreements with or provide 
        technical assistance to political jurisdictions, nonprofit 
        organizations, Federal agencies, and other interested parties;
            (3) hire and compensate staff, including individuals with 
        expertise in--
                    (A) natural, historical, cultural, educational, 
                scenic, and recreational resource conservation;
                    (B) economic and community development; and
                    (C) heritage planning;
            (4) obtain funds or services from any source, including 
        other Federal programs;
            (5) contract for goods or services; and
            (6) support activities of partners and any other activities 
        that further the purposes of the National Heritage Area and are 
        consistent with the approved management plan.
    (d) Prohibition on Acquisition of Real Property.--The local 
coordinating entity may not use Federal funds authorized under this 
subtitle to acquire any interest in real property.

SEC. 427. NIAGARA FALLS HERITAGE AREA COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established within the Department of 
the Interior the Niagara Falls National Heritage Area Commission.
    (b) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of 17 members, of 
whom--
            (1) 1 member shall be the Director of the National Park 
        Service (or a designee);
            (2) 5 members shall be appointed by the Secretary, after 
        consideration of the recommendation of the Governor, from among 
        individuals with knowledge and experience of--
                    (A) the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation 
                and Historic Preservation, the Niagara River Greenway 
                Commission, the New York Power Authority, the USA 
                Niagara Development Corporation, and the Niagara 
                Tourism and Convention Corporation; or
                    (B) any successors of the agencies described in 
                subparagraph (A);
            (3) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary, after 
        consideration of the recommendation of the mayor of Niagara 
        Falls, New York;
            (4) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary, after 
        consideration of the recommendation of the mayor of the village 
        of Youngstown, New York;
            (5) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary, after 
        consideration of the recommendation of the mayor of the village 
        of Lewiston, New York;
            (6) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary, after 
        consideration of the recommendation of the Tuscarora Nation;
            (7) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary, after 
        consideration of the recommendation of the Seneca Nation of 
        Indians; and
            (8) 6 members shall be individuals who have an interest in, 
        support for, and expertise appropriate to tourism, regional 
        planning, history and historic preservation, cultural or 
        natural resource management, conservation, recreation, and 
        education, or museum services, of whom--
                    (A) 4 members shall be appointed by the Secretary, 
                after consideration of the recommendation of the 2 
                members of the Senate from the State; and
                    (B) 2 members shall be appointed by the Secretary, 
                after consideration of the recommendation of the Member 
                of the House of Representatives whose district 
                encompasses the National Heritage Area.
    (c) Terms; Vacancies.--
            (1) Term.--A member of the Commission shall be appointed 
        for a term not to exceed 5 years.
            (2) Vacancies.--
                    (A) Partial term.--A member appointed to fill a 
                vacancy on the Commission shall serve for the remainder 
                of the term for which the predecessor of the member was 
                appointed.
                    (B) In general.--A vacancy on the Commission shall 
                be filled in the same manner as the original 
                appointment was made.
    (d) Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.--
            (1) Selection.--The Commission shall select a Chairperson 
        and Vice Chairperson from among the members of the Commission.
            (2) Vice chairperson.--The Vice Chairperson shall serve as 
        the Chairperson in the absence of the Chairperson.
    (e) Quorum.--
            (1) In general.--A majority of the members of the 
        Commission shall constitute a quorum.
            (2) Transaction.--For the transaction of any business or 
        the exercise of any power of the Commission, the Commission 
        shall have the power to act by a majority vote of the members 
        present at any meeting at which a quorum is in attendance.
    (f) Meetings.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall meet at least 
        quarterly at the call of--
                    (A) the Chairperson; or
                    (B) a majority of the members of the Commission.
            (2) Notice.--Notice of Commission meetings and agendas for 
        the meetings shall be published in local newspapers that are 
        distributed throughout the National Heritage Area.
            (3) Applicable law.--Meetings of the Commission shall be 
        subject to section 552b of title 5, United States Code.
    (g) Authorities of the Commission.--In addition to the authorities 
otherwise granted in this subtitle, the Commission may--
            (1) request and accept from the head of any Federal agency, 
        on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis, any personnel of 
        the Federal agency to the Commission to assist in carrying out 
        the duties of the Commission;
            (2) request and accept from the head of any State agency or 
        any agency of a political subdivision of the State, on a 
        reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, any personnel of the 
        agency to the Commission to assist in carrying out the duties 
        of the Commission;
            (3) seek, accept, and dispose of gifts, bequests, grants, 
        or donations of money, personal property, or services; and
            (4) use the United States mails in the same manner as other 
        agencies of the Federal Government.
    (h) Duties of the Commission.--To further the purposes of the 
National Heritage Area, in addition to the duties otherwise listed in 
this subtitle, the Commission shall assist in the transition of the 
management of the National Heritage Area from the Commission to the 
local coordinating entity designated under this subtitle.
    (i) Compensation of Members.--
            (1) In general.--A member of the Commission shall serve 
        without compensation.
            (2) Travel expenses.--A member of the Commission shall be 
        allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, at rates authorized for an employee of an agency 
        under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
        Code, while away from the home or regular place of business of 
        the member in the performance of the duties of the Commission.
    (j) Gifts.--For purposes of section 170(c) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986, any gift or charitable contribution to the Commission 
shall be considered to be a charitable contribution or gift to the 
United States.
    (k) Use of Federal Funds.--Except as provided for the leasing of 
administrative facilities under subsection (g)(1), the Commission may 
not use Federal funds made available to the Commission under this 
subtitle to acquire any real property or interest in real property.

SEC. 428. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) In General.--Nothing in this subtitle affects the authority of 
a Federal agency to provide technical or financial assistance under any 
other law.
    (b) Consultation and Coordination.--The head of any Federal agency 
planning to conduct activities that may have an impact on a National 
Heritage Area is encouraged to consult and coordinate the activities 
with the Secretary and the local coordinating entity to the maximum 
extent practicable.
    (c) Other Federal Agencies.--Nothing in this subtitle--
            (1) modifies, alters, or amends any law or regulation 
        authorizing a Federal agency to manage Federal land under the 
        jurisdiction of the Federal agency;
            (2) limits the discretion of a Federal land manager to 
        implement an approved land use plan within the boundaries of a 
        National Heritage Area; or
            (3) modifies, alters, or amends any authorized use of 
        Federal land under the jurisdiction of a Federal agency.

SEC. 429. PRIVATE PROPERTY AND REGULATORY PROTECTIONS.

    Nothing in this subtitle--
            (1) abridges the rights of any property owner (whether 
        public or private), including the right to refrain from 
        participating in any plan, project, program, or activity 
        conducted within the National Heritage Area;
            (2) requires any property owner to permit public access 
        (including access by Federal, State, Tribal, or local agencies) 
        to the property of the property owner, or to modify public 
        access or use of property of the property owner under any other 
        Federal, State, Tribal, or local law;
            (3) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, approved 
        land use plan, or other regulatory authority of any Federal, 
        State, Tribal, or local agency, or conveys any land use or 
        other regulatory authority to any local coordinating entity, 
        including but not necessarily limited to development and 
        management of energy, water, or water-related infrastructure;
            (4) authorizes or implies the reservation or appropriation 
        of water or water rights;
            (5) diminishes the authority of the State to manage fish 
        and wildlife, including the regulation of fishing and hunting 
        within the National Heritage Area; or
            (6) creates any liability, or affects any liability under 
        any other law, of any private property owner with respect to 
        any person injured on the private property.

SEC. 430. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Subject to subsection (b), 
there are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subtitle not 
more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Funds so appropriated shall 
remain available until expended.
    (b) Limitation on Total Amounts Appropriated.--Not more than 
$15,000,000 may be appropriated to carry out this subtitle.
    (c) Cost-Sharing Requirement.--The Federal share of the total cost 
of any activity under this subtitle shall be not more than 50 percent; 
the non-Federal contribution may be in the form of in-kind 
contributions of goods or services fairly valued.

SEC. 431. USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES.

    Nothing in this subtitle shall preclude the local coordinating 
entity from using Federal funds available under other laws for the 
purposes for which those funds were authorized.

SEC. 432. SUNSET FOR GRANTS AND OTHER ASSISTANCE.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide financial assistance 
under this subtitle terminates on the date that is 15 years after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

           Subtitle C--Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area

SEC. 441. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this subtitle include--
            (1) to recognize the significant natural and cultural 
        legacies of the area, as demonstrated in the study entitled 
        ``Feasibility Study of the Proposed Abraham Lincoln National 
        Heritage Area'' prepared for the Looking for Lincoln Heritage 
        Coalition in 2002 and revised in 2007;
            (2) to promote heritage, cultural and recreational tourism 
        and to develop educational and cultural programs for visitors 
        and the general public;
            (3) to recognize and interpret important events and 
        geographic locations representing key periods in the growth of 
        America, including Native American, Colonial American, European 
        American, and African American heritage;
            (4) to recognize and interpret the distinctive role the 
        region played in shaping the man who would become the 16th 
        President of the United States, and how Abraham Lincoln's life 
        left its traces in the stories, folklore, buildings, 
        streetscapes, and landscapes of the region;
            (5) to provide a cooperative management framework to foster 
        a close working relationship with all levels of government, the 
        private sector, and the local communities in the region in 
        identifying, preserving, interpreting, and developing the 
        historical, cultural, scenic, and natural resources of the 
        region for the educational and inspirational benefit of current 
        and future generations; and
            (6) to provide appropriate linkages between units of the 
        National Park System and communities, governments, and 
        organizations within the Heritage Area.

SEC. 442. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Local coordinating entity.--The term ``local 
        coordinating entity'' means the Looking for Lincoln Heritage 
        Coalition, which is hereby designated by Congress--
                    (A) to develop, in partnership with others, the 
                management plan for the National Heritage Area; and
                    (B) to act as a catalyst for the implementation of 
                projects and programs among diverse partners in the 
                National Heritage Area.
            (2) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the plan prepared by the local coordinating entity for the 
        National Heritage Area that specifies actions, policies, 
        strategies, performance goals, and recommendations to meet the 
        goals of the National Heritage Area, in accordance with this 
        subtitle.
            (3) National heritage area.--The term ``National Heritage 
        Area'' means the Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area 
        established in this subtitle.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 443. DESIGNATION OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established the Abraham Lincoln 
National Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--
            (1) In general.--The National Heritage Area shall consist 
        of sites as designated by the management plan within a core 
        area located in Central Illinois, consisting of Adams, Brown, 
        Calhoun, Cass, Champaign, Christian, Clark, Coles, Cumberland, 
        Dewitt, Douglas, Edgar, Fayette, Fulton, Greene, Hancock, 
        Henderson, Jersey, Knox, LaSalle, Logan, Macon, Macoupin, 
        Madison, Mason, McDonough, McLean, Menard, Montgomery, Morgan, 
        Moultrie, Peoria, Piatt, Pike, Sangamon, Schuyler, Scott, 
        Shelby, Tazewell, Vermillion, Warren and Woodford counties.
            (2) Map.--The boundaries of the National Heritage Area 
        shall be as generally depicted on the map titled ``Proposed 
        Abraham Lincoln National Heritage Area'', and numbered 338/
        80,000, and dated July 2007. The map shall be on file and 
        available to the public in the appropriate offices of the 
        National Park Service and the local coordinating entity.

SEC. 444. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) Requirements.--The management plan for the National Heritage 
Area shall--
            (1) describe comprehensive policies, goals, strategies, and 
        recommendations for telling the story of the heritage of the 
        area covered by the National Heritage Area and encouraging 
        long-term resource protection, enhancement, interpretation, 
        funding, management, and development of the National Heritage 
        Area;
            (2) include a description of actions and commitments that 
        Federal, State, Tribal, and local governments, private 
        organizations, and citizens will take to protect, enhance, 
        interpret, fund, manage, and develop the natural, historical, 
        cultural, educational, scenic, and recreational resources of 
        the National Heritage Area;
            (3) specify existing and potential sources of funding or 
        economic development strategies to protect, enhance, interpret, 
        fund, manage, and develop the National Heritage Area;
            (4) include an inventory of the natural, historical, 
        cultural, educational, scenic, and recreational resources of 
        the National Heritage Area related to the national importance 
        and themes of the National Heritage Area that should be 
        protected, enhanced, interpreted, managed, funded, and 
        developed;
            (5) recommend policies and strategies for resource 
        management, including the development of intergovernmental and 
        interagency agreements to protect, enhance, interpret, fund, 
        manage, and develop the natural, historical, cultural, 
        educational, scenic, and recreational resources of the National 
        Heritage Area;
            (6) describe a program for implementation for the 
        management plan, including--
                    (A) performance goals;
                    (B) plans for resource protection, enhancement, 
                interpretation, funding, management, and development; 
                and
                    (C) specific commitments for implementation that 
                have been made by the local coordinating entity or any 
                Federal, State, Tribal, or local government agency, 
                organization, business, or individual;
            (7) include an analysis of, and recommendations for, means 
        by which Federal, State, Tribal, and local programs may best be 
        coordinated (including the role of the National Park Service 
        and other Federal agencies associated with the National 
        Heritage Area) to further the purposes of this subtitle; and
            (8) include a business plan that--
                    (A) describes the role, operation, financing, and 
                functions of the local coordinating entity and of each 
                of the major activities contained in the management 
                plan; and
                    (B) provides adequate assurances that the local 
                coordinating entity has the partnerships and financial 
                and other resources necessary to implement the 
                management plan for the National Heritage Area.
    (b) Deadline.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date on 
        which funds are first made available to develop the management 
        plan after designation as a National Heritage Area, the local 
        coordinating entity shall submit the management plan to the 
        Secretary for approval.
            (2) Termination of funding.--If the management plan is not 
        submitted to the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (1), 
        the local coordinating entity shall not qualify for any 
        additional financial assistance under this subtitle until such 
        time as the management plan is submitted to and approved by the 
        Secretary.
    (c) Approval of Management Plan.--
            (1) Review.--Not later than 180 days after receiving the 
        plan, the Secretary shall review and approve or disapprove the 
        management plan for a National Heritage Area on the basis of 
        the criteria established under paragraph (3).
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with the 
        Governor of each State in which the National Heritage Area is 
        located before approving a management plan for the National 
        Heritage Area.
            (3) Criteria for approval.--In determining whether to 
        approve a management plan for a National Heritage Area, the 
        Secretary shall consider whether--
                    (A) the local coordinating entity represents the 
                diverse interests of the National Heritage Area, 
                including Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
                governments, natural, and historic resource protection 
                organizations, educational institutions, businesses, 
                recreational organizations, community residents, and 
                private property owners;
                    (B) the local coordinating entity--
                            (i) has afforded adequate opportunity for 
                        public and Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
                        governmental involvement (including through 
                        workshops and hearings) in the preparation of 
                        the management plan; and
                            (ii) provides for at least semiannual 
                        public meetings to ensure adequate 
                        implementation of the management plan;
                    (C) the resource protection, enhancement, 
                interpretation, funding, management, and development 
                strategies described in the management plan, if 
                implemented, would adequately protect, enhance, 
                interpret, fund, manage, and develop the natural, 
                historic, cultural, educational, scenic, and 
                recreational resources of the National Heritage Area;
                    (D) the management plan would not adversely affect 
                any activities authorized on Federal land under public 
                land laws or land use plans;
                    (E) the local coordinating entity has demonstrated 
                the financial capability, in partnership with others, 
                to carry out the plan;
                    (F) the Secretary has received adequate assurances 
                from the appropriate State, Tribal, and local officials 
                whose support is needed to ensure the effective 
                implementation of the State, Tribal, and local elements 
                of the management plan; and
                    (G) the management plan demonstrates partnerships 
                among the local coordinating entity, Federal, State, 
                Tribal, and local governments, regional planning 
                organizations, nonprofit organizations, or private 
                sector parties for implementation of the management 
                plan.
            (4) Disapproval.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Secretary disapproves the 
                management plan, the Secretary--
                            (i) shall advise the local coordinating 
                        entity in writing of the reasons for the 
                        disapproval; and
                            (ii) may make recommendations to the local 
                        coordinating entity for revisions to the 
                        management plan.
                    (B) Deadline.--Not later than 180 days after 
                receiving a revised management plan, the Secretary 
                shall approve or disapprove the revised management 
                plan.
            (5) Amendments.--
                    (A) In general.--An amendment to the management 
                plan that substantially alters the purposes of the 
                National Heritage Area shall be reviewed by the 
                Secretary and approved or disapproved in the same 
                manner as the original management plan.
                    (B) Implementation.--The local coordinating entity 
                shall not use Federal funds authorized by this subtitle 
                to implement an amendment to the management plan until 
                the Secretary approves the amendment.
            (6) Authorities.--The Secretary may--
                    (A) provide technical assistance under the 
                authority of this subtitle for the development and 
                implementation of the management plan; and
                    (B) enter into cooperative agreements with 
                interested parties to carry out this subtitle.

SEC. 445. EVALUATION; REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 3 years before the date on which 
authority for Federal funding terminates for the National Heritage Area 
under this subtitle, the Secretary shall--
            (1) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments of the 
        National Heritage Area; and
            (2) prepare a report in accordance with subsection (c).
    (b) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under subsection (a)(1) 
shall--
            (1) assess the progress of the local coordinating entity 
        with respect to--
                    (A) accomplishing the purposes of the authorizing 
                legislation for the National Heritage Area; and
                    (B) achieving the goals and objectives of the 
                approved management plan for the National Heritage 
                Area;
            (2) analyze the Federal, State, Tribal, and local, and 
        private investments in the National Heritage Area to determine 
        the impact of the investments; and
            (3) review the management structure, partnership 
        relationships, and funding of the National Heritage Area for 
        purposes of identifying the critical components for 
        sustainability of the National Heritage Area.
    (c) Report.--Based on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
(a)(1), the Secretary shall submit a report to the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the United States House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate. 
The report shall include recommendations for the future role of the 
National Park Service, if any, with respect to the National Heritage 
Area.

SEC. 446. LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.

    (a) Duties.--To further the purposes of the National Heritage Area, 
the Looking for Lincoln Heritage Coalition, as the local coordinating 
entity, shall--
            (1) prepare a management plan for the National Heritage 
        Area, and submit the management plan to the Secretary, in 
        accordance with this subtitle;
            (2) submit an annual report to the secretary for each 
        fiscal year for which the local coordinating entity receives 
        Federal funds under this subtitle, specifying--
                    (A) the specific performance goals and 
                accomplishments of the local coordinating entity;
                    (B) the expenses and income of the local 
                coordinating entity;
                    (C) the amounts and sources of matching funds;
                    (D) the amounts leveraged with Federal funds and 
                sources of the leveraging; and
                    (E) grants made to any other entities during the 
                fiscal year;
            (3) make available for audit for each fiscal year for which 
        the local coordinating entity receives Federal funds under this 
        subtitle, all information pertaining to the expenditure of the 
        funds and any matching funds; and
            (4) encourage economic viability and sustainability that is 
        consistent with the purposes of the National Heritage Area.
    (b) Authorities.--For the purposes of preparing and implementing 
the approved management plan for the National Heritage Area, the local 
coordinating entity may use Federal funds made available under this 
subtitle to--
            (1) make grants to political jurisdictions, nonprofit 
        organizations, and other parties within the National Heritage 
        Area;
            (2) enter into cooperative agreements with or provide 
        technical assistance to political jurisdictions, nonprofit 
        organizations, Federal agencies, and other interested parties;
            (3) hire and compensate staff, including individuals with 
        expertise in--
                    (A) natural, historical, cultural, educational, 
                scenic, and recreational resource conservation;
                    (B) economic and community development; and
                    (C) heritage planning;
            (4) obtain funds or services from any source, including 
        other Federal programs;
            (5) contract for goods or services; and
            (6) support activities of partners and any other activities 
        that further the purposes of the National Heritage Area and are 
        consistent with the approved management plan.
    (c) Prohibition on Acquisition of Real Property.--The local 
coordinating entity may not use Federal funds authorized under this 
subtitle to acquire any interest in real property.

SEC. 447. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) In General.--Nothing in this subtitle affects the authority of 
a Federal agency to provide technical or financial assistance under any 
other law.
    (b) Consultation and Coordination.--The head of any Federal agency 
planning to conduct activities that may have an impact on a National 
Heritage Area is encouraged to consult and coordinate the activities 
with the Secretary and the local coordinating entity to the maximum 
extent practicable.
    (c) Other Federal Agencies.--Nothing in this subtitle--
            (1) modifies, alters, or amends any law or regulation 
        authorizing a Federal agency to manage Federal land under the 
        jurisdiction of the Federal agency;
            (2) limits the discretion of a Federal land manager to 
        implement an approved land use plan within the boundaries of a 
        National Heritage Area; or
            (3) modifies, alters, or amends any authorized use of 
        Federal land under the jurisdiction of a Federal agency.

SEC. 448. PRIVATE PROPERTY AND REGULATORY PROTECTIONS.

    Nothing in this subtitle--
            (1) abridges the rights of any property owner (whether 
        public or private), including the right to refrain from 
        participating in any plan, project, program, or activity 
        conducted within the National Heritage Area;
            (2) requires any property owner to permit public access 
        (including access by Federal, State, Tribal, or local agencies) 
        to the property of the property owner, or to modify public 
        access or use of property of the property owner under any other 
        Federal, State, Tribal, or local law;
            (3) alters any duly adopted land use regulation, approved 
        land use plan, or other regulatory authority of any Federal, 
        State, Tribal, or local agency, or conveys any land use or 
        other regulatory authority to any local coordinating entity, 
        including but not necessarily limited to development and 
        management of energy, water, or water-related infrastructure;
            (4) authorizes or implies the reservation or appropriation 
        of water or water rights;
            (5) diminishes the authority of the State to manage fish 
        and wildlife, including the regulation of fishing and hunting 
        within the National Heritage Area; or
            (6) creates any liability, or affects any liability under 
        any other law, of any private property owner with respect to 
        any person injured on the private property.

SEC. 449. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Subject to subsection (b), 
there are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subtitle not 
more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Funds so appropriated shall 
remain available until expended.
    (b) Limitation on Total Amounts Appropriated.--Not more than 
$15,000,000 may be appropriated to carry out this subtitle.
    (c) Cost-Sharing Requirement.--The Federal share of the total cost 
of any activity under this subtitle shall be not more than 50 percent; 
the non-Federal contribution may be in the form of in-kind 
contributions of goods or services fairly valued.

SEC. 450. USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES.

    Nothing in this subtitle shall preclude the local coordinating 
entity from using Federal funds available under other laws for the 
purposes for which those funds were authorized.

SEC. 451. SUNSET FOR GRANTS AND OTHER ASSISTANCE.

    The authority of the Secretary to provide financial assistance 
under this subtitle terminates on the date that is 15 years after the 
date of the enactment of this subtitle.

       Subtitle D--Authorization Extensions and Viability Studies

SEC. 461. EXTENSIONS OF AUTHORIZED APPROPRIATIONS.

    Division II of the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 
1996 (Public Law 104-333; 16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended in each of 
sections 108(a), 209(a), 311(a), 409(a), 508(a), 608(a), 708(a), 810(a) 
(as redesignated by section 474(9)), and 909(c), by striking 
``$10,000,000'' and inserting ``$15,000,000''.

SEC. 462. EVALUATION AND REPORT.

    (a) In General.--For the nine National Heritage Areas authorized in 
Division II of the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 
1996, not later than 3 years before the date on which authority for 
Federal funding terminates for each National Heritage Area, the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) conduct an evaluation of the accomplishments of the 
        National Heritage Area; and
            (2) prepare a report in accordance with subsection (c).
    (b) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under subsection (a)(1) 
shall--
            (1) assess the progress of the local management entity with 
        respect to--
                    (A) accomplishing the purposes of the authorizing 
                legislation for the National Heritage Area; and
                    (B) achieving the goals and objectives of the 
                approved management plan for the National Heritage 
                Area;
            (2) analyze the investments of Federal, State, Tribal, and 
        local government and private entities in each National Heritage 
        Area to determine the impact of the investments; and
            (3) review the management structure, partnership 
        relationships, and funding of the National Heritage Area for 
        purposes of identifying the critical components for 
        sustainability of the National Heritage Area.
    (c) Report.--Based on the evaluation conducted under subsection 
(a)(1), the Secretary shall submit a report to the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the United States House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate. The report 
shall include recommendations for the future role of the National Park 
Service, if any, with respect to the National Heritage Area.

            Subtitle E--Technical Corrections and Additions

SEC. 471. NATIONAL COAL HERITAGE AREA TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    Title I of Division II of the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands 
Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333 as amended by Public Law 
106-176 and Public Law 109-338) is amended--
            (1) by striking section 103(b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Boundaries.--The National Coal Heritage Area shall be 
comprised of Lincoln County, West Virginia, and Paint Creek and Cabin 
Creek within Kanawah County, West Virginia, and the counties that are 
the subject of the study by the National Park Service, dated 1993, 
entitled `A Coal Mining Heritage Study: Southern West Virginia' 
conducted pursuant to title VI of Public Law 100-699.'';
            (2) by striking section 105 and inserting the following:

``SEC. 105. ELIGIBLE RESOURCES.

    ``(a) In General.--The resources eligible for the assistance under 
section 104 shall include--
            ``(1) resources in Lincoln County, West Virginia, and Paint 
        Creek and Cabin Creek in Kanawah County, West Virginia, as 
        determined to be appropriate by the National Coal Heritage Area 
        Authority; and
            ``(2) the resources set forth in appendix D of the study by 
        the National Park Service, dated 1993, entitled `A Coal Mining 
        Heritage Study: Southern West Virginia' conducted pursuant to 
        title VI of Public Law 100-699.
    ``(b) Priority.--Priority consideration shall be given to those 
sites listed as `Conservation Priorities' and `Important Historic 
Resources' as depicted on the map entitled `Study Area: Historic 
Resources' in such study.'';
            (3) in section 106(a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Governor'' and all that follows 
                through ``Parks,'' and inserting ``National Coal 
                Heritage Area Authority''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``State of West 
                Virginia'' and all that follows through ``entities, 
                or'' and inserting ``National Coal Heritage Area 
                Authority or''; and
            (4) in section 106(b), by inserting ``not'' before 
        ``meet''.

SEC. 472. RIVERS OF STEEL NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA ADDITION.

    Section 403(b) of title IV of Division II of the Omnibus Parks and 
Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333) is amended by 
inserting ``Butler,'' after ``Beaver,''.

SEC. 473. SOUTH CAROLINA NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR ADDITION.

    Section 604(b)(2) of title VI of Division II of the Omnibus Parks 
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(O) Berkeley County.
                    ``(P) Saluda County.
                    ``(Q) The portion of Georgetown County that is not 
                part of the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage 
                Corridor.''.

SEC. 474. OHIO AND ERIE CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR TECHNICAL 
              CORRECTIONS.

    Title VIII of Division II of the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands 
Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Canal National Heritage Corridor'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``National Heritage Canalway'';
            (2) by striking ``corridor'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``canalway'', except in references to the feasibility 
        study and management plan;
            (3) in the heading of section 808(a)(3), by striking 
        ``corridor'' and inserting ``canalway'';
            (4) in the title heading, by striking ``CANAL NATIONAL 
        HERITAGE CORRIDOR'' and inserting ``NATIONAL HERITAGE 
        CANALWAY'';
            (5) in section 803--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (2);
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6), 
                and (7) as paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6), 
                respectively;
                    (C) in paragraph (2) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (B)), by striking ``808'' and inserting 
                ``806''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (B)), by striking ``807(a)'' and inserting 
                ``805(a)'';
            (6) in the heading of section 804, by striking ``canal 
        national heritage corridor'' and inserting ``national heritage 
        canalway'';
            (7) in the second sentence of section 804(b)(1), by 
        striking ``808'' and inserting ``806'';
            (8) by striking sections 805 and 806;
            (9) by redesignating sections 807, 808, 809, 810, 811, and 
        812 as sections 805, 806, 807, 808, 809, and 810, respectively;
            (10) in section 805(c)(2) (as redesignated by paragraph 
        (9)), by striking ``808'' and inserting ``806'';
            (11) in section 806 (as redesignated by paragraph (9))--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``Committee'' 
                and inserting ``Secretary'';
                    (B) in the heading of subsection (a)(1), by 
                striking ``committee'' and inserting ``secretary'';
                    (C) in subsection (a)(3), in the first sentence of 
                subparagraph (B), by striking ``Committee'' and 
                inserting ``management entity'';
                    (D) in subsection (e), by striking ``807(d)(1)'' 
                and inserting ``805(d)(1)''; and
                    (E) in subsection (f), by striking ``807(d)(1)'' 
                and inserting ``805(d)(1)'';
            (12) in section 807 (as redesignated by paragraph (9)), in 
        subsection (c) by striking ``Cayohoga Valley National 
        Recreation Area'' and inserting ``Cayohoga Valley National 
        Park'';
            (13) in section 808 (as redesignated by paragraph (9))--
                    (A) in subsection (b), by striking ``Committee 
                or''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), in the matter before 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``Committee'' and inserting 
                ``management entity''; and
            (14) in section 809 (as redesignated by paragraph (9)), by 
        striking ``assistance'' and inserting ``financial assistance''.

SEC. 475. NEW JERSEY COASTAL HERITAGE TRAIL ROUTE EXTENSION OF 
              AUTHORIZATION.

    Section 6 of Public Law 100-515 (16 U.S.C. 1244 note) is amended as 
follows:
            (1) Strike paragraph (1) of subsection (b) and insert the 
        following new paragraph:
            ``(1) In general.--Amounts made available under subsection 
        (a) shall be used only for--
                    ``(A) technical assistance;
                    ``(B) the design and fabrication of interpretive 
                materials, devices, and signs; and
                    ``(C) the preparation of the strategic plan.''.
            (2) Paragraph (3) of subsection (b) is amended by inserting 
        after subparagraph (B) a new subparagraph as follows:
                    ``(C) Notwithstanding paragraph (3)(A), funds made 
                available under subsection (a) for the preparation of 
                the strategic plan shall not require a non-Federal 
                match.''.
            (3) Subsection (c) is amended by striking ``2007'' and 
        inserting ``2011''.

                          Subtitle F--Studies

SEC. 481. COLUMBIA-PACIFIC NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA STUDY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (2) Study area.--The term ``study area'' means--
                    (A) the coastal areas of Clatsop and Pacific 
                Counties (also known as the North Beach Peninsula); and
                    (B) areas relating to Native American history, 
                local history, Euro-American settlement culture, and 
                related economic activities of the Columbia River 
                within a corridor along the Columbia River eastward in 
                Clatsop, Pacific, Columbia, and Wahkiakum Counties.
    (b) Columbia-Pacific National Heritage Area Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        managers of any Federal land within the study area, appropriate 
        State and local governmental agencies, tribal governments, and 
        any interested organizations, shall conduct a study to 
        determine the feasibility of designating the study area as the 
        Columbia-Pacific National Heritage Area.
            (2) Requirements.--The study shall include analysis, 
        documentation, and determinations on whether the study area--
                    (A) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and 
                cultural resources that together represent distinctive 
                aspects of American heritage worthy of recognition, 
                conservation, interpretation, and continuing use, and 
                are best managed through partnerships among public and 
                private entities and by combining diverse and sometimes 
                noncontiguous resources and active communities;
                    (B) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and 
                folklife that are a valuable part of the national 
                story;
                    (C) provides outstanding opportunities to conserve 
                natural, historic, cultural, or scenic features;
                    (D) provides outstanding recreational and 
                educational opportunities;
                    (E) contains resources important to the identified 
                theme or themes of the study area that retain a degree 
                of integrity capable of supporting interpretation;
                    (F) includes residents, business interests, 
                nonprofit organizations, and local and State 
                governments that are involved in the planning, have 
                developed a conceptual financial plan that outlines the 
                roles for all participants, including the Federal 
                Government, and have demonstrated support for the 
                concept of a national heritage area;
                    (G) has a potential local coordinating entity to 
                work in partnership with residents, business interests, 
                nonprofit organizations, and local and State 
                governments to develop a national heritage area 
                consistent with continued local and State economic 
                activity; and
                    (H) has a conceptual boundary map that is supported 
                by the public.
            (3) Private property.--In conducting the study required by 
        this subsection, the Secretary shall analyze the potential 
        impact that designation of the area as a national heritage area 
        is likely to have on land within the proposed area or bordering 
        the proposed area that is privately owned at the time that the 
        study is conducted.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 3 fiscal years after the date on which 
funds are made available to carry out the study, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
a report that describes the findings, conclusions, and recommendations 
of the Secretary with respect to the study.

SEC. 482. STUDY OF SITES RELATING TO ABRAHAM LINCOLN IN KENTUCKY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means a 
        National Heritage Area in the State to honor Abraham Lincoln.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the Commonwealth of 
        Kentucky.
            (3) Study area.--The term ``study area'' means the study 
        area described in subsection (b)(2).
    (b) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Kentucky Historical Society, other State historical societies, 
        the State Historic Preservation Officer, State tourism offices, 
        and other appropriate organizations and agencies, shall conduct 
        a study to assess the suitability and feasibility of 
        designating the study area as a National Heritage Area in the 
        State to honor Abraham Lincoln.
            (2) Description of study area.--The study area shall 
        include--
                    (A) Boyle, Breckinridge, Fayette, Franklin, Hardin, 
                Jefferson, Jessamine, Larue, Madison, Mercer, and 
                Washington Counties in the State; and
                    (B) the following sites in the State:
                            (i) The Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National 
                        Historic Site.
                            (ii) The Abraham Lincoln Boyhood Home Unit.
                            (iii) Downtown Hodgenville, Kentucky, 
                        including the Lincoln Museum and Adolph A. 
                        Weinman statue.
                            (iv) Lincoln Homestead State Park and 
                        Mordecai Lincoln House.
                            (v) Camp Nelson Heritage Park.
                            (vi) Farmington Historic Home.
                            (vii) The Mary Todd Lincoln House.
                            (viii) Ashland, which is the Henry Clay 
                        Estate.
                            (ix) The Old State Capitol.
                            (x) The Kentucky Military History Museum.
                            (xi) The Thomas D. Clark Center for 
                        Kentucky History.
                            (xii) The New State Capitol.
                            (xiii) Whitehall.
                            (xiv) Perryville Battlefield State Historic 
                        Site.
                            (xv) The Joseph Holt House.
                            (xvi) Elizabethtown, Kentucky, including 
                        the Lincoln Heritage House.
                            (xvii) Lincoln Marriage Temple at Fort 
                        Harrod.
            (3) Requirements.--The study shall include analysis, 
        documentation, and determinations on whether the study area--
                    (A) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and 
                cultural resources that--
                            (i) interpret--
                                    (I) the life of Abraham Lincoln; 
                                and
                                    (II) the contributions of Abraham 
                                Lincoln to the United States;
                            (ii) represent distinctive aspects of the 
                        heritage of the United States;
                            (iii) are worthy of recognition, 
                        conservation, interpretation, and continuing 
                        use; and
                            (iv) would be best managed--
                                    (I) through partnerships among 
                                public and private entities; and
                                    (II) by linking diverse and 
                                sometimes noncontiguous resources and 
                                active communities;
                    (B) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and 
                historical events that are a valuable part of the story 
                of the United States;
                    (C) provides--
                            (i) outstanding opportunities to conserve 
                        natural, historic, cultural, or scenic 
                        features; and
                            (ii) outstanding educational opportunities;
                    (D) contains resources that--
                            (i) are important to any identified themes 
                        of the study area; and
                            (ii) retain a degree of integrity capable 
                        of supporting interpretation;
                    (E) includes residents, business interests, 
                nonprofit organizations, and State and local 
                governments that--
                            (i) are involved in the planning of the 
                        Heritage Area;
                            (ii) have developed a conceptual financial 
                        plan that outlines the roles of all 
                        participants in the Heritage Area, including 
                        the Federal Government; and
                            (iii) have demonstrated support for 
                        designation of the Heritage Area;
                    (F) has a potential management entity to work in 
                partnership with the individuals and entities described 
                in subparagraph (E) to develop the Heritage Area while 
                encouraging State and local economic activity; and
                    (G) has a conceptual boundary map that is supported 
                by the public.
    (c) Report.--Not later than the third fiscal year after the date on 
which funds are first made available to carry out this section, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate a report that describes--
            (1) the findings of the study; and
            (2) any conclusions and recommendations of the Secretary.

  TITLE V--BUREAU OF RECLAMATION AND UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY 
                             AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 501. ALASKA WATER RESOURCES STUDY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Alaska.
    (b) Alaska Water Resources Study.--
            (1) Study.--The Secretary, acting through the Commissioner 
        of Reclamation and the Director of the United States Geological 
        Survey, where appropriate, and in accordance with this section 
        and other applicable provisions of law, shall conduct a study 
        that includes--
                    (A) a survey of accessible water supplies, 
                including aquifers, on the Kenai Peninsula and in the 
                Municipality of Anchorage, the Matanuska-Susitna 
                Borough, the city of Fairbanks, and the Fairbanks 
                Northstar Borough;
                    (B) a survey of water treatment needs and 
                technologies, including desalination, applicable to the 
                water resources of the State; and
                    (C) a review of the need for enhancement of the 
                streamflow information collected by the United States 
                Geological Survey in the State relating to critical 
                water needs in areas such as--
                            (i) infrastructure risks to State 
                        transportation;
                            (ii) flood forecasting;
                            (iii) resource extraction; and
                            (iv) fire management.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
        a report describing the results of the study required by 
        paragraph (1).
    (c) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out any 
provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 502. RENEGOTIATION OF PAYMENT SCHEDULE, REDWOOD VALLEY COUNTY 
              WATER DISTRICT.

    Section 15 of Public Law 100-516 (102 Stat. 2573) is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (2) of subsection (a) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(2) If, as of January 1, 2006, the Secretary of the 
        Interior and the Redwood Valley County Water District have not 
        renegotiated the schedule of payment, the District may enter 
        into such additional non-Federal obligations as are necessary 
        to finance procurement of dedicated water rights and 
        improvements necessary to store and convey those rights to 
        provide for the District's water needs. The Secretary shall 
        reschedule the payments due under loans numbered 14-06-200-
        8423A and 14-06-200-8423A Amendatory and said payments shall 
        commence when such additional obligations have been financially 
        satisfied by the District. The date of the initial payment owed 
        by the District to the United States shall be regarded as the 
        start of the District's repayment period and the time upon 
        which any interest shall first be computed and assessed under 
        section 5 of the Small Reclamation Projects Act of 1956 (43 
        U.S.C. 422a et seq.).''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (c).

SEC. 503. AMERICAN RIVER PUMP STATION PROJECT TRANSFER.

    (a) Authority To Transfer.--The Secretary of the Interior 
(hereafter in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall 
transfer ownership of the American River Pump Station Project located 
at Auburn, California, which includes the Pumping Plant, associated 
facilities, and easements necessary for permanent operation of the 
facilities, to the Placer County Water Agency, in accordance with the 
terms of Contract No. 02-LC-20-7790 between the United States and 
Placer County Water Agency and the terms and conditions established in 
this section.
    (b) Federal Costs Nonreimbursable.--Federal costs associated with 
construction of the American River Pump Station Project located at 
Auburn, California, are nonreimbursable.
    (c) Grant of Real Property Interest.--The Secretary is authorized 
to grant title to Placer County Water Agency as provided in subsection 
(a) in full satisfaction of the United States' obligations under Land 
Purchase Contract 14-06-859-308 to provide a water supply to the Placer 
County Water Agency.
    (d) Compliance With Environmental Laws.--
            (1) In general.--Before conveying land and facilities 
        pursuant to this section, the Secretary shall comply with all 
        applicable requirements under--
                    (A) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
                    (B) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.); and
                    (C) any other law applicable to the land and 
                facilities.
            (2) Effect.--Nothing in this section modifies or alters any 
        obligations under--
                    (A) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); or
                    (B) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.).
    (e) Release From Liability.--Effective on the date of transfer to 
the Placer County Water Agency of any land or facility under this 
section, the United States shall not be liable for damages arising out 
of any act, omission, or occurrence relating to the land and 
facilities, consistent with Article 9 of Contract No. 02-LC-20-7790 
between the United States and Placer County Water Agency.

SEC. 504. ARTHUR V. WATKINS DAM ENLARGEMENT.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Arthur V. Watkins Dam is a feature of the Weber Basin 
        Project, which was authorized by law on August 29, 1949.
            (2) Increasing the height of Arthur V. Watkins Dam and 
        construction of pertinent facilities may provide additional 
        storage capacity for the development of additional water supply 
        for the Weber Basin Project for uses of municipal and 
        industrial water supply, flood control, fish and wildlife, and 
        recreation.
    (b) Authorization of Feasibility Study.--The Secretary of the 
Interior, acting through the Bureau of Reclamation, is authorized to 
conduct a feasibility study on raising the height of Arthur V. Watkins 
Dam for the development of additional storage to meet water supply 
needs within the Weber Basin Project area and the Wasatch Front. The 
feasibility study shall include such environmental evaluation as 
required under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
4321 et seq.) and a cost allocation as required under the Reclamation 
Project Act of 1939 (43 U.S.C. 485 et seq.).
    (c) Cost Shares.--
            (1) Federal share.--The Federal share of the costs of the 
        study authorized in subsection (b) shall not exceed 50 percent 
        of the total cost of the study.
            (2) In-kind contributions.--The Secretary shall accept, as 
        appropriate, in-kind contributions of goods or services from 
        the Weber Basin Water Conservancy District. Such goods and 
        services accepted under this subsection shall be counted as 
        part of the non-Federal cost share for the study.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary $1,000,000 for the Federal cost share of 
the study authorized in subsection (b).
    (e) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out any 
provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 505. NEW MEXICO WATER PLANNING ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Reclamation and 
        the United States Geological Survey.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New 
        Mexico.
    (b) Comprehensive Water Plan Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--Upon the request of the Governor of the 
        State and subject to paragraphs (2) through (6), the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) provide to the State technical assistance and 
                grants for the development of comprehensive State water 
                plans;
                    (B) conduct water resources mapping in the State; 
                and
                    (C) conduct a comprehensive study of groundwater 
                resources (including potable, brackish, and saline 
                water resources) in the State to assess the quantity, 
                quality, and interaction of groundwater and surface 
                water resources.
            (2) Technical assistance.--Technical assistance provided 
        under paragraph (1) may include--
                    (A) acquisition of hydrologic data, groundwater 
                characterization, database development, and data 
                distribution;
                    (B) expansion of climate, surface water, and 
                groundwater monitoring networks;
                    (C) assessment of existing water resources, surface 
                water storage, and groundwater storage potential;
                    (D) numerical analysis and modeling necessary to 
                provide an integrated understanding of water resources 
                and water management options;
                    (E) participation in State planning forums and 
                planning groups;
                    (F) coordination of Federal water management 
                planning efforts;
                    (G) technical review of data, models, planning 
                scenarios, and water plans developed by the State; and
                    (H) provision of scientific and technical 
                specialists to support State and local activities.
            (3) Allocation.--In providing grants under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall, subject to the availability of 
        appropriations, allocate--
                    (A) $5,000,000 to develop hydrologic models and 
                acquire associated equipment for the New Mexico Rio 
                Grande main stem sections and Rios Pueblo de Taos and 
                Hondo, Rios Nambe, Pojoaque and Teseque, Rio Chama, and 
                Lower Rio Grande tributaries;
                    (B) $1,500,000 to complete the hydrographic survey 
                development of hydrologic models and acquire associated 
                equipment for the San Juan River and tributaries;
                    (C) $1,000,000 to complete the hydrographic survey 
                development of hydrologic models and acquire associated 
                equipment for Southwest New Mexico, including the 
                Animas Basin, the Gila River, and tributaries;
                    (D) $4,500,000 for statewide digital 
                orthophotography mapping; and
                    (E) such sums as are necessary to carry out 
                additional projects consistent with paragraph (2).
            (4) Cost-sharing requirement.--
                    (A) In general.--The non-Federal share of the total 
                cost of any activity carried out using a grant provided 
                under paragraph (1) shall be 50 percent.
                    (B) Form of non-federal share.--The non-Federal 
                share under subparagraph (A) may be in the form of any 
                in-kind services that the Secretary determines would 
                contribute substantially toward the conduct and 
                completion of the activity assisted.
            (5) Nonreimbursable basis.--Any assistance or grants 
        provided to the State under this section shall be made on a 
        non-reimbursable basis.
            (6) Authorized transfers.--On request of the State, the 
        Secretary shall directly transfer to 1 or more Federal agencies 
        any amounts made available to the State to carry out this 
        section.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $3,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2012.
    (d) Sunset of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to carry 
out any provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 506. CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN BUILDINGS AND LANDS OF THE YAKIMA 
              PROJECT, WASHINGTON.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
convey to the Yakima-Tieton Irrigation District, located in Yakima 
County, Washington, all right, title, and interest of the United States 
in and to the buildings and lands of the Yakima Project, Washington, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the agreement 
titled ``Agreement Between the United States and the Yakima-Tieton 
Irrigation District to Transfer Title to Certain Federally Owned 
Buildings and Lands, With Certain Property Rights, Title, and Interest, 
to the Yakima-Tieton Irrigation District'' (Contract No. 5-07-10-
L1658).
    (b) Liability.--Effective upon the date of conveyance under this 
section, the United States shall not be held liable by any court for 
damages of any kind arising out of any act, omission, or occurrence 
relating to the conveyed buildings and lands, except for damages caused 
by acts of negligence committed by the United States or by its 
employees or agents before the date of conveyance. Nothing in this 
section increases the liability of the United States beyond that 
provided in chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code (popularly 
known as the Federal Tort Claims Act), on the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    (c) Benefits.--After conveyance of the buildings and lands to the 
Yakima-Tieton Irrigation District under this section--
            (1) such buildings and lands shall not be considered to be 
        a part of a Federal reclamation project; and
            (2) such irrigation district shall not be eligible to 
        receive any benefits with respect to any buildings and lands 
        conveyed, except benefits that would be available to a 
        similarly situated person with respect to such buildings and 
        lands that are not part of a Federal reclamation project.
    (d) Report.--If the Secretary of the Interior has not completed the 
conveyance required under subsection (a) within 12 months after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
report that explains the reason such conveyance has not been completed 
and stating the date by which the conveyance will be completed.

SEC. 507. CONJUNCTIVE USE OF SURFACE AND GROUNDWATER IN JUAB COUNTY, 
              UTAH.

    Section 202(a)(2) of the Reclamation Projects Authorization and 
Adjustment Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-575) is amended by inserting 
``Juab,'' after ``Davis,''.

SEC. 508. EARLY REPAYMENT OF A & B IRRIGATION DISTRICT CONSTRUCTION 
              COSTS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 213 of the Reclamation 
Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 390mm), any landowner within the A & B 
Irrigation District in the State (referred to in this section as the 
``District'') may repay, at any time, the construction costs of 
District project facilities that are allocated to land of the landowner 
within the District.
    (b) Applicability of Full-Cost Pricing Limitations.--On discharge, 
in full, of the obligation for repayment of all construction costs 
described in subsection (a) that are allocated to all land the 
landowner owns in the District in question, the parcels of land shall 
not be subject to the ownership and full-cost pricing limitations under 
Federal reclamation law (the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, 
chapter 1093), and Acts supplemental to and amendatory of that Act (43 
U.S.C. 371 et seq.), including the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (13 
U.S.C. 390aa et seq.).
    (c) Certification.--On request of a landowner that has repaid, in 
full, the construction costs described in subsection (a), the Secretary 
of the Interior shall provide to the landowner a certificate described 
in section 213(b)(1) of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 
390mm(b)(1)).
    (d) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) modifies any contractual rights under, or amends or 
        reopens, the reclamation contract between the District and the 
        United States; or
            (2) modifies any rights, obligations, or relationships 
        between the District and landowners in the District under Idaho 
        State law.

SEC. 509. OREGON WATER RESOURCES.

    (a) Extension of Participation of Bureau of Reclamation in 
Deschutes River Conservancy.--Section 301 of the Oregon Resource 
Conservation Act of 1996 (division B of Public Law 104-208; 110 Stat. 
3009-534) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``Deschutes River 
        Basin Working Group'' and inserting ``Deschutes River 
        Conservancy Working Group'';
            (2) by amending the text of subsection (a)(1)(B) to read as 
        follows: ``4 representatives of private interests including two 
        from irrigated agriculture who actively farm more than 100 
        acres of irrigated land and are not irrigation district 
        managers and two from the environmental community;'';
            (3) in subsection (b)(3), by inserting before the final 
        period the following: ``, and up to a total amount of 
        $2,000,000 during each of fiscal years 2007 through 2016''; and
            (4) in subsection (h), by inserting before the period at 
        the end the following: ``, and $2,000,000 for each of fiscal 
        years 2007 through 2016''.
    (b) Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Act.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Associated ditch companies, incorporated.--The 
                term ``Associated Ditch Companies, Incorporated'' means 
                the nonprofit corporation established under the laws of 
                the State of Oregon that operates Wallowa Lake Dam.
                    (B) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the 
                Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
                Commissioner of Reclamation.
                    (C) Wallowa lake dam rehabilitation program.--The 
                term ``Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation Program'' means 
                the program for the rehabilitation of the Wallowa Lake 
                Dam in Oregon, as contained in the engineering document 
                titled, ``Phase I Dam Assessment and Preliminary 
                Engineering Design'', dated December 2002, and on file 
                with the Bureau of Reclamation.
            (2) Authorization to participate in program.--
                    (A) Grants and cooperative agreements.--The 
                Secretary may provide grants to, or enter into 
                cooperative or other agreements with, tribal, State, 
                and local governmental entities and the Associated 
                Ditch Companies, Incorporated, to plan, design, and 
                construct facilities needed to implement the Wallowa 
                Lake Dam Rehabilitation Program.
                    (B) Conditions.--As a condition of providing funds 
                under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall ensure 
                that--
                            (i) the Wallowa Lake Dam Rehabilitation 
                        Program and activities under this section meet 
                        the standards of the dam safety program of the 
                        State of Oregon;
                            (ii) the Associated Ditch Companies, 
                        Incorporated, agrees to assume liability for 
                        any work performed, or supervised, with Federal 
                        funds provided to it under this subsection; and
                            (iii) the United States shall not be liable 
                        for damages of any kind arising out of any act, 
                        omission, or occurrence relating to a facility 
                        rehabilitated or constructed with Federal funds 
                        provided under this subsection, both while and 
                        after activities are conducted using Federal 
                        funds provided under this subsection.
                    (C) Cost sharing.--
                            (i) In general.--The Federal share of the 
                        costs of activities authorized under this 
                        subsection shall not exceed 50 percent.
                            (ii) Exclusions from federal share.--There 
                        shall not be credited against the Federal share 
                        of such costs--
                                    (I) any expenditure by the 
                                Bonneville Power Administration in the 
                                Wallowa River watershed; and
                                    (II) expenditures made by 
                                individual agricultural producers in 
                                any Federal commodity or conservation 
                                program.
                    (D) Compliance with state law.--The Secretary, in 
                carrying out this subsection, shall comply with 
                applicable Oregon State water law.
                    (E) Prohibition on holding title.--The Federal 
                Government shall not hold title to any facility 
                rehabilitated or constructed under this subsection.
                    (F) Prohibition on operation and maintenance.--The 
                Federal Government shall not be responsible for the 
                operation and maintenance of any facility constructed 
                or rehabilitated under this subsection.
            (3) Relationship to other law.--Activities funded under 
        this subsection shall not be considered a supplemental or 
        additional benefit under Federal reclamation law (the Act of 
        June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, chapter 1093), and Acts 
        supplemental to and amendatory of that Act (43 U.S.C. 371 et 
        seq.)).
            (4) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Secretary to pay the Federal share of 
        the costs of activities authorized under this subsection 
        $6,000,000.
            (5) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        any provisions of this subsection shall terminate 10 years 
        after the date of the enactment of this subsection.
    (c) Little Butte/Bear Creek Subbasins, Oregon, Water Resource 
Study.--
            (1) Authorization.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
        through the Bureau of Reclamation, may participate in the Water 
        for Irrigation, Streams and the Economy Project water 
        management feasibility study and environmental impact statement 
        in accordance with the ``Memorandum of Agreement Between City 
        of Medford and Bureau of Reclamation for the Water for 
        Irrigation, Streams, and the Economy Project'', dated July 2, 
        2004.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--
                    (A) In general.--There is authorized to be 
                appropriated to the Bureau of Reclamation $500,000 to 
                carry out activities under this subsection.
                    (B) Non-federal share.--
                            (i) In general.--The non-Federal share 
                        shall be 50 percent of the total costs of the 
                        Bureau of Reclamation in carrying out paragraph 
                        (1).
                            (ii) Form.--The non-Federal share required 
                        under clause (i) may be in the form of any in-
                        kind services that the Secretary of the 
                        Interior determines would contribute 
                        substantially toward the conduct and completion 
                        of the study and environmental impact statement 
                        required under paragraph (1).
            (3) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
        any provisions of this subsection shall terminate 10 years 
        after the date of the enactment of this section.
    (d) North Unit Irrigation District.--The Act of August 10, 1954 (68 
Stat. 679, chapter 663), is amended--
            (1) in the first section--
                    (A) by inserting ``(referred to in this Act as the 
                `District')'' after ``irrigation district''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``(referred to in this Act as the 
                `Contract')'' after ``1953''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 3. ADDITIONAL TERMS.

    ``On approval of the District directors and notwithstanding project 
authorizing legislation to the contrary, the Contract is modified, 
without further action by the Secretary of the Interior, to include the 
following modifications:
            ``(1) In Article 8(a) of the Contract, by deleting `a 
        maximum of 50,000' and inserting `approximately 59,000' after 
        `irrigation service to'.
            ``(2) In Article 11(a) of the Contract, by deleting `The 
        classified irrigable lands within the project comprise 
        49,817.75 irrigable acres, of which 35,773.75 acres are in 
        Class A and 14,044.40 in Class B. These lands and the standards 
        upon which the classification was made are described in the 
        document entitled ``Land Classification, North Unit, Deschutes 
        Project, 1953'' which is on file in the office of the Regional 
        Director, Bureau of Reclamation, Boise, Idaho, and in the 
        office of the District' and inserting `The classified irrigable 
        land within the project comprises 58,902.8 irrigable acres, all 
        of which are authorized to receive irrigation water pursuant to 
        water rights issued by the State of Oregon and have in the past 
        received water pursuant to such State water rights.'.
            ``(3) In Article 11(c) of the Contract, by deleting `, with 
        the approval of the Secretary,' after `District may', by 
        deleting `the 49,817.75 acre maximum limit on the irrigable 
        area is not exceeded' and inserting `irrigation service is 
        provided to no more than approximately 59,000 acres and no 
        amendment to the District boundary is required' after `time so 
        long as'.
            ``(4) In Article 11(d) of the Contract, by inserting `, and 
        may further be used for instream purposes, including fish or 
        wildlife purposes, to the extent that such use is required by 
        Oregon State law in order for the District to engage in, or 
        take advantage of, conserved water projects as authorized by 
        Oregon State law' after `herein provided'.
            ``(5) By adding at the end of Article 12(d) the following: 
        `(e) Notwithstanding the above subsections of this Article or 
        Article 13 below, beginning with the irrigation season 
        immediately following the date of enactment of the National 
        Forests, Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation Projects 
        Authorization Act of 2007, the annual installment for each 
        year, for the District, under the Contract, on account of the 
        District's construction charge obligation, shall be a fixed and 
        equal annual amount payable on June 30 the year following the 
        year for which it is applicable, such that the District's total 
        construction charge obligation shall be completely paid by June 
        30, 2044.'.
            ``(6) In Article 14(a) of the Contract, by inserting `and 
        for instream purposes, including fish or wildlife purposes, to 
        the extent that such use is required by Oregon State law in 
        order for the District to engage in, or take advantage of, 
        conserved water projects as authorized by Oregon State law,' 
        after `and incidental stock and domestic uses', by inserting 
        `and for instream purposes as described above,' after 
        `irrigation, stock and domestic uses', and by inserting `, 
        including natural flow rights out of the Crooked River held by 
        the District' after `irrigation system'.
            ``(7) In Article 29(a) of the Contract, by inserting `and 
        for instream purposes, including fish or wildlife purposes, to 
        the extent that such use is required by Oregon State law in 
        order for the District to engage in, or take advantage of, 
        conserved water projects as authorized by Oregon State law' 
        after `provided in article 11'.
            ``(8) In Article 34 of the Contract, by deleting `The 
        District, after the election and upon the execution of this 
        contract, shall promptly secure final decree of the proper 
        State court approving and confirming this contract and 
        decreeing and adjudging it to be a lawful, valid, and binding 
        general obligation of the District. The District shall furnish 
        to the United States certified copies of such decrees and of 
        all pertinent supporting records.' after `for that purpose.'.

``SEC. 4. FUTURE AUTHORITY TO RENEGOTIATE.

    ``The Secretary of the Interior (acting through the Commissioner of 
Reclamation) may in the future renegotiate with the District such terms 
of the Contract as the District directors determine to be necessary, 
only upon the written request of the District directors and the consent 
of the Commissioner of Reclamation.''.

SEC. 510. REPUBLICAN RIVER BASIN FEASIBILITY STUDY.

    (a) Authorization of Study.--Pursuant to reclamation laws, the 
Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Reclamation and 
in consultation and cooperation with the States of Nebraska, Kansas, 
and Colorado, may conduct a study to--
            (1) determine the feasibility of implementing a water 
        supply and conservation project that will--
                    (A) improve water supply reliability in the 
                Republican River Basin between Harlan County Lake in 
                Nebraska and Milford Lake in Kansas, including areas in 
                the counties of Harlan, Franklin, Webster, and Nuckolls 
                in Nebraska and Jewel, Republic, Cloud, Washington, and 
                Clay in Kansas (in this section referred to as the 
                ``Republican River Basin'');
                    (B) increase the capacity of water storage through 
                modifications of existing projects or through new 
                projects that serve areas in the Republican River 
                Basin; and
                    (C) improve water management efficiency in the 
                Republican River Basin through conservation and other 
                available means and, where appropriate, evaluate 
                integrated water resource management and supply needs 
                in the Republican River Basin; and
            (2) consider appropriate cost-sharing options for 
        implementation of the project.
    (b) Cost Sharing.--The Federal share of the cost of the study shall 
not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of the study, and shall be 
nonreimbursable.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary shall undertake the 
study through cooperative agreements with the State of Kansas or 
Nebraska and other appropriate entities determined by the Secretary.
    (d) Completion and Report.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), not 
        later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
        the Secretary of the Interior shall complete the study and 
        transmit to the Congress a report containing the results of the 
        study.
            (2) Extension.--If the Secretary determines that the study 
        cannot be completed within the 3-year period beginning on the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary--
                    (A) shall, at the time of that determination, 
                report to the Congress on the status of the study, 
                including an estimate of the date of completion; and
                    (B) complete the study and transmit to the Congress 
                a report containing the results of the study by not 
                later than that date.
    (e) Sunset of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to carry 
out any provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 511. EASTERN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT.

    (a) In General.--The Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study 
and Facilities Act (43 U.S.C. 390h et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:

``SEC. 1639. EASTERN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT RECYCLED WATER SYSTEM 
              PRESSURIZATION AND EXPANSION PROJECT, CALIFORNIA.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
Eastern Municipal Water District, California, may participate in the 
design, planning, and construction of permanent facilities needed to 
establish operational pressure zones that will be used to provide 
recycled water in the district.
    ``(b) Cost Sharing.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--Funds provided by the Secretary shall not be 
used for operation or maintenance of the project described in 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $12,000,000.
    ``(e) Sunset of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to carry 
out any provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the 
date of enactment of this section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections in section 2 of 
the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 
U.S.C. prec. 371) is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 1638 the following:

``Sec. 1639. Eastern Municipal Water District Recycled Water System 
                            Pressurization and Expansion Project, 
                            California.''.

SEC. 512. INLAND EMPIRE AND CUCAMONGA VALLEY RECYCLING PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--The Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study 
and Facilities Act (43 U.S.C. 390h et seq.) (as amended by section 
511(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 1640. INLAND EMPIRE REGIONAL WATER RECYCLING PROJECT.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the Inland 
Empire Utilities Agency, may participate in the design, planning, and 
construction of the Inland Empire regional water recycling project 
described in the report submitted under section 1606(c).
    ``(b) Cost Sharing.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--Funds provided by the Secretary shall not be 
used for operation and maintenance of the project described in 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000.
    ``(e) Sunset of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to carry 
out any provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the 
date of the enactment of this section.

``SEC. 1641. CUCAMONGA VALLEY WATER RECYCLING PROJECT.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the Cucamonga 
Valley Water District, may participate in the design, planning, and 
construction of the Cucamonga Valley Water District satellite recycling 
plants in Rancho Cucamonga, California, to reclaim and recycle 
approximately 2 million gallons per day of domestic wastewater.
    ``(b) Cost Sharing.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the capital 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--Funds provided by the Secretary shall not be 
used for operation and maintenance of the project described in 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section, $10,000,000.
    ``(e) Sunset of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary to carry 
out any provisions of this section shall terminate 10 years after the 
date of the enactment of this section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections in section 2 of 
the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 
U.S.C. prec. 371) (as amended by section 511(b)) is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 1639 the following:

``1640. Inland Empire Regional Water Recycling Program.
``1641. Cucamonga Valley Water Recycling Project.''.

SEC. 513. BAY AREA REGIONAL WATER RECYCLING PROGRAM.

    (a) Project Authorizations.--
            (1) In general.--The Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater 
        Study and Facilities Act (43 U.S.C. 390h et seq.) (as amended 
        by section 512(a)) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:

``SEC. 1642. MOUNTAIN VIEW, MOFFETT AREA RECLAIMED WATER PIPELINE 
              PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the City 
of Palo Alto, California, and the City of Mountain View, California, is 
authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of 
recycled water distribution systems.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000.

``SEC. 1643. PITTSBURG RECYCLED WATER PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the City 
of Pittsburg, California, and the Delta Diablo Sanitation District, is 
authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of 
recycled water system facilities.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $1,750,000.

``SEC. 1644. ANTIOCH RECYCLED WATER PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the City 
of Antioch, California, and the Delta Diablo Sanitation District, is 
authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of 
recycled water system facilities.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $2,250,000.

``SEC. 1645. NORTH COAST COUNTY WATER DISTRICT RECYCLED WATER PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the North 
Coast County Water District, is authorized to participate in the 
design, planning, and construction of recycled water system facilities.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $2,500,000.

``SEC. 1646. REDWOOD CITY RECYCLED WATER PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the City 
of Redwood City, California, is authorized to participate in the 
design, planning, and construction of recycled water system facilities.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $1,100,000.

``SEC. 1647. SOUTH SANTA CLARA COUNTY RECYCLED WATER PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the South 
County Regional Wastewater Authority and the Santa Clara Valley Water 
District, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and 
construction of recycled water system distribution facilities.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $7,000,000.

``SEC. 1648. SOUTH BAY ADVANCED RECYCLED WATER TREATMENT FACILITY.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the City 
of San Jose, California, and the Santa Clara Valley Water District, is 
authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of 
recycled water treatment facilities.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of the project 
authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost of the project.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $8,250,000.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--The table of sections in 
        section 2 of the Reclamation Projects Authorization and 
        Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. prec. 371) (as amended by 
        section 512(b)) is amended by inserting after the item relating 
        to section 1641 the following:

``Sec. 1642. Mountain View, Moffett Area Reclaimed Water Pipeline 
                            Project.
``Sec. 1643. Pittsburg Recycled Water Project.
``Sec. 1644. Antioch Recycled Water Project.
``Sec. 1645. North Coast County Water District Recycled Water Project.
``Sec. 1646. Redwood City Recycled Water Project.
``Sec. 1647. South Santa Clara County Recycled Water Project.
``Sec. 1648. South Bay Advanced Recycled Water Treatment Facility.''.
    (b) San Jose Area Water Reclamation and Reuse Project.--It is the 
intent of Congress that a comprehensive water recycling program for the 
San Francisco Bay Area include the San Jose Area water reclamation and 
reuse program authorized by section 1607 of the Reclamation Projects 
Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 390h-5).

SEC. 514. BUREAU OF RECLAMATION SITE SECURITY.

    (a) Treatment of Capital Costs.--Costs incurred by the Secretary of 
the Interior for the physical fortification of Bureau of Reclamation 
facilities to satisfy increased post-September 11, 2001, security 
needs, including the construction, modification, upgrade, or 
replacement of such facility fortifications, shall be nonreimbursable.
    (b) Treatment of Security-Related Operation and Maintenance 
Costs.--
            (1) Reimbursable costs.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        shall include no more than $18,900,000 per fiscal year, indexed 
        each fiscal year after fiscal year 2008 according to the 
        preceding year's Consumer Price Index, of those costs incurred 
        for increased levels of guards and patrols, training, patrols 
        by local and tribal law enforcement entities, operation, 
        maintenance, and replacement of guard and response force 
        equipment, and operation and maintenance of facility 
        fortifications at Bureau of Reclamation facilities after the 
        events of September 11, 2001, as reimbursable operation and 
        maintenance costs under Reclamation law.
            (2) Costs collected through water rates.--In the case of 
        the Central Valley Project of California, site security costs 
        allocated to irrigation and municipal and industrial water 
        service in accordance with this section shall be collected by 
        the Secretary exclusively through inclusion of these costs in 
        the operation and maintenance water rates.
    (c) Transparency and Report to Congress.--
            (1) Policies and procedures.--The Secretary is authorized 
        to develop policies and procedures with project beneficiaries, 
        consistent with the requirements of paragraphs (2) and (3), to 
        provide for the payment of the reimbursable costs described in 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Notice.--On identifying a Bureau of Reclamation 
        facility for a site security measure, the Secretary shall 
        provide to the project beneficiaries written notice--
                    (A) describing the need for the site security 
                measure and the process for identifying and 
                implementing the site security measure; and
                    (B) summarizing the administrative and legal 
                requirements relating to the site security measure.
            (3) Consultation.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) provide project beneficiaries an opportunity to 
                consult with the Bureau of Reclamation on the planning, 
                design, and construction of the site security measure; 
                and
                    (B) in consultation with project beneficiaries, 
                develop and provide timeframes for the consultation 
                described in subparagraph (A).
            (4) Response; notice.--Before incurring costs pursuant to 
        activities described in subsection (b), the Secretary shall 
        consider cost containment measures recommended by a project 
        beneficiary that has elected to consult with the Bureau of 
        Reclamation on such activities. The Secretary shall provide to 
        the project beneficiary--
                    (A) a timely written response describing proposed 
                actions, if any, to address the recommendation; and
                    (B) notice regarding the costs and status of such 
                activities on a periodic basis.
            (5) Report.--The Secretary shall report annually to the 
        Natural Resources Committee of the House of Representatives and 
        the Energy and Natural Resources Committee of the Senate on 
        site security actions and activities undertaken pursuant to 
        this Act for each fiscal year. The report shall include a 
        summary of Federal and non-Federal expenditures for the fiscal 
        year and information relating to a 5-year planning horizon for 
        the program, detailed to show pre-September 11, 2001, and post-
        September 11, 2001, costs for the site security activities.
    (d) Pre-September 11, 2001 Security Cost Levels.--Reclamation 
project security costs at the levels of activity that existed prior to 
September 11, 2001, shall remain reimbursable.

             TITLE VI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 601. ENERGY TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER.

    Section 917 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16197) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 917. ADVANCED ENERGY TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER CENTERS.

    ``(a) Grants.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
of the National Forests, Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation Projects 
Authorization Act of 2007, the Secretary shall make grants to nonprofit 
institutions, State and local governments, cooperative extension 
services, or institutions of higher education (or consortia thereof), 
to establish a geographically dispersed network of Advanced Energy 
Technology Transfer Centers, to be located in areas the Secretary 
determines have the greatest need of the services of such Centers. In 
making awards under this section, the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) give priority to applicants already operating or 
        partnered with an outreach program capable of transferring 
        knowledge and information about advanced energy efficiency 
        methods and technologies;
            ``(2) ensure that, to the extent practicable, the program 
        enables the transfer of knowledge and information--
                    ``(A) about a variety of technologies; and
                    ``(B) in a variety of geographic areas;
            ``(3) give preference to applicants that would 
        significantly expand on or fill a gap in existing programs in a 
        geographical region; and
            ``(4) consider the special needs and opportunities for 
        increased energy efficiency for manufactured and site-built 
        housing, including construction, renovation, and retrofit.
    ``(b) Activities.--Each Center shall operate a program to encourage 
demonstration and commercial application of advanced energy methods and 
technologies through education and outreach to building and industrial 
professionals, and to other individuals and organizations with an 
interest in efficient energy use. Funds awarded under this section may 
be used for the following activities:
            ``(1) Developing and distributing informational materials 
        on technologies that could use energy more efficiently.
            ``(2) Carrying out demonstrations of advanced energy 
        methods and technologies.
            ``(3) Developing and conducting seminars, workshops, long-
        distance learning sessions, and other activities to aid in the 
        dissemination of knowledge and information on technologies that 
        could use energy more efficiently.
            ``(4) Providing or coordinating onsite energy evaluations, 
        including instruction on the commissioning of building heating 
        and cooling systems, for a wide range of energy end-users.
            ``(5) Examining the energy efficiency needs of energy end-
        users to develop recommended research projects for the 
        Department.
            ``(6) Hiring experts in energy efficient technologies to 
        carry out activities described in paragraphs (1) through (5).
    ``(c) Application.--A person seeking a grant under this section 
shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form and 
containing such information as the Secretary may require. The Secretary 
may award a grant under this section to an entity already in existence 
if the entity is otherwise eligible under this section. The application 
shall include, at a minimum--
            ``(1) a description of the applicant's outreach program, 
        and the geographic region it would serve, and of why the 
        program would be capable of transferring knowledge and 
        information about advanced energy technologies that increase 
        efficiency of energy use;
            ``(2) a description of the activities the applicant would 
        carry out, of the technologies that would be transferred, and 
        of any other organizations that will help facilitate a regional 
        approach to carrying out those activities;
            ``(3) a description of how the proposed activities would be 
        appropriate to the specific energy needs of the geographic 
        region to be served;
            ``(4) an estimate of the number and types of energy end-
        users expected to be reached through such activities; and
            ``(5) a description of how the applicant will assess the 
        success of the program.
    ``(d) Selection Criteria.--The Secretary shall award grants under 
this section on the basis of the following criteria, at a minimum:
            ``(1) The ability of the applicant to carry out the 
        proposed activities.
            ``(2) The extent to which the applicant will coordinate the 
        activities of the Center with other entities as appropriate, 
        such as State and local governments, utilities, institutions of 
        higher education, and National Laboratories.
            ``(3) The appropriateness of the applicant's outreach 
        program for carrying out the program described in this section.
            ``(4) The likelihood that proposed activities could be 
        expanded or used as a model for other areas.
    ``(e) Cost-Sharing.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary 
shall require cost-sharing in accordance with the requirements of 
section 988 for commercial application activities.
    ``(f) Duration.--
            ``(1) Initial grant period.--A grant awarded under this 
        section shall be for a period of 5 years.
            ``(2) Initial evaluation.--Each grantee under this section 
        shall be evaluated during its third year of operation under 
        procedures established by the Secretary to determine if the 
        grantee is accomplishing the purposes of this section described 
        in subsection (a). The Secretary shall terminate any grant that 
        does not receive a positive evaluation. If an evaluation is 
        positive, the Secretary may extend the grant for 3 additional 
        years beyond the original term of the grant.
            ``(3) Additional extension.--If a grantee receives an 
        extension under paragraph (2), the grantee shall be evaluated 
        again during the second year of the extension. The Secretary 
        shall terminate any grant that does not receive a positive 
        evaluation. If an evaluation is positive, the Secretary may 
        extend the grant for a final additional period of 3 additional 
        years beyond the original extension.
            ``(4) Limitation.--No grantee may receive more than 11 
        years of support under this section without reapplying for 
        support and competing against all other applicants seeking a 
        grant at that time.
    ``(g) Prohibition.--None of the funds awarded under this section 
may be used for the construction of facilities.
    ``(h) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
            ``(1) Advanced energy methods and technologies.--The term 
        `advanced energy methods and technologies' means all methods 
        and technologies that promote energy efficiency and 
        conservation, including distributed generation technologies, 
        and life-cycle analysis of energy use.
            ``(2) Center.--The term `Center' means an Advanced Energy 
        Technology Transfer Center established pursuant to this 
        section.
            ``(3) Distributed generation.--The term `distributed 
        generation' means an electric power generation technology, 
        including photovoltaic, small wind, and micro-combined heat and 
        power, that serves electric consumers at or near the site of 
        production.
            ``(4) Cooperative extension.--The term `Cooperative 
        Extension' means the extension services established at the 
        land-grant colleges and universities under the Smith-Lever Act 
        of May 8, 1914.
            ``(5) Land-grant colleges and universities.--The term 
        `land-grant colleges and universities' means--
                    ``(A) 1862 Institutions (as defined in section 2 of 
                the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education 
                Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7601));
                    ``(B) 1890 Institutions (as defined in section 2 of 
                that Act); and
                    ``(C) 1994 Institutions (as defined in section 2 of 
                that Act).
    ``(i) Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise authorized to be appropriated in section 911, there are 
authorized to be appropriated for the program under this section such 
sums as may be appropriated.''.

SEC. 602. AMENDMENTS TO THE STEEL AND ALUMINUM ENERGY CONSERVATION AND 
              TECHNOLOGY COMPETITIVENESS ACT OF 1988.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 9 of the Steel and 
Aluminum Energy Conservation and Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988 
(15 U.S.C. 5108) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry 
out this Act $12,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 through 
2012.''.
    (b) Steel Project Priorities.--Section 4(c)(1) of the Steel and 
Aluminum Energy Conservation and Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988 
(15 U.S.C. 5103(c)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``coatings for sheet 
        steels'' and inserting ``sheet and bar steels''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(K) The development of technologies which reduce 
                greenhouse gas emissions.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--The Steel and Aluminum Energy 
Conservation and Technology Competitiveness Act of 1988 is further 
amended--
            (1) by striking section 7 (15 U.S.C. 5106); and
            (2) in section 8 (15 U.S.C. 5107), by inserting ``, 
        beginning with fiscal year 2008,'' after ``close of each fiscal 
        year''.

                  TITLE VII--NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS

              Subtitle A--Immigration, Security, and Labor

SEC. 701. STATEMENT OF CONGRESSIONAL INTENT.

    (a) Immigration and Growth.--In recognition of the need to ensure 
uniform adherence to long-standing fundamental immigration policies of 
the United States, it is the intention of the Congress in enacting this 
subtitle--
            (1) to ensure that effective border control procedures are 
        implemented and observed, and that national security and 
        homeland security issues are properly addressed, by extending 
        the immigration laws (as defined in section 101(a)(17) of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(17)), to 
        apply to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands 
        (referred to in this subtitle as the ``Commonwealth''), with 
        special provisions to allow for--
                    (A) the orderly phasing-out of the nonresident 
                contract worker program of the Commonwealth; and
                    (B) the orderly phasing-in of Federal 
                responsibilities over immigration in the Commonwealth; 
                and
            (2) to minimize, to the greatest extent practicable, 
        potential adverse economic and fiscal effects of phasing-out 
        the Commonwealth's nonresident contract worker program and to 
        maximize the Commonwealth's potential for future economic and 
        business growth by--
                    (A) encouraging diversification and growth of the 
                economy of the Commonwealth in accordance with 
                fundamental values underlying Federal immigration 
                policy;
                    (B) recognizing local self-government, as provided 
                for in the Covenant To Establish a Commonwealth of the 
                Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union With the 
                United States of America through consultation with the 
                Governor of the Commonwealth;
                    (C) assisting the Commonwealth in achieving a 
                progressively higher standard of living for citizens of 
                the Commonwealth through the provision of technical and 
                other assistance;
                    (D) providing opportunities for individuals 
                authorized to work in the United States, including 
                citizens of the freely associated states; and
                    (E) providing a mechanism for the continued use of 
                alien workers, to the extent those workers continue to 
                be necessary to supplement the Commonwealth's resident 
                workforce, and to protect those workers from the 
                potential for abuse and exploitation.
    (b) Avoiding Adverse Effects.--In recognition of the Commonwealth's 
unique economic circumstances, history, and geographical location, it 
is the intent of the Congress that the Commonwealth be given as much 
flexibility as possible in maintaining existing businesses and other 
revenue sources, and developing new economic opportunities, consistent 
with the mandates of this subtitle. This subtitle, and the amendments 
made by this subtitle, should be implemented wherever possible to 
expand tourism and economic development in the Commonwealth, including 
aiding prospective tourists in gaining access to the Commonwealth's 
memorials, beaches, parks, dive sites, and other points of interest.

SEC. 702. IMMIGRATION REFORM FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.

    (a) Amendment to Joint Resolution Approving Covenant Establishing 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.--The Joint Resolution 
entitled ``A Joint Resolution to approve the `Covenant To Establish a 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with 
the United States of America', and for other purposes'', approved March 
24, 1976 (Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 263), is amended by adding at the 
end the following new section:

``SEC. 6. IMMIGRATION AND TRANSITION.

    ``(a) Application of the Immigration and Nationality Act and 
Establishment of a Transition Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), 
        effective on the first day of the first full month commencing 1 
        year after the date of enactment of the National Forests, 
        Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation Projects Authorization Act 
        of 2007 (hereafter referred to as the `transition program 
        effective date'), the provisions of the `immigration laws' (as 
        defined in section 101(a)(17) of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17))) shall apply to the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (referred to in 
        this section as the `Commonwealth'), except as otherwise 
        provided in this section.
            ``(2) Transition period.--There shall be a transition 
        period beginning on the transition program effective date and 
        ending on December 31, 2013, except as provided in subsections 
        (b) and (d), during which the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
        in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney 
        General, the Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of the 
        Interior, shall establish, administer, and enforce a transition 
        program to regulate immigration to the Commonwealth, as 
        provided in this section (hereafter referred to as the 
        `transition program').
            ``(3) Delay of commencement of transition period.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland 
                Security, in the Secretary's sole discretion, in 
                consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, the 
                Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of State, the 
                Attorney General, and the Governor of the Commonwealth, 
                may determine that the transition program effective 
                date be delayed for a period not to exceed more than 
                180 days after such date.
                    ``(B) Congressional notification.--The Secretary of 
                Homeland Security shall notify the Congress of a 
                determination under subparagraph (A) not later than 30 
                days prior to the transition program effective date.
                    ``(C) Congressional review.--A delay of the 
                transition program effective date shall not take effect 
                until 30 days after the date on which the notification 
                under subparagraph (B) is made.
            ``(4) Requirement for regulations.--The transition program 
        shall be implemented pursuant to regulations to be promulgated, 
        as appropriate, by the head of each agency or department of the 
        United States having responsibilities under the transition 
        program.
            ``(5) Interagency agreements.--The Secretary of Homeland 
        Security, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Labor, and 
        the Secretary of the Interior shall negotiate and implement 
        agreements among their agencies to identify and assign their 
        respective duties so as to ensure timely and proper 
        implementation of the provisions of this section. The 
        agreements should address, at a minimum, procedures to ensure 
        that Commonwealth employers have access to adequate labor, and 
        that tourists, students, retirees, and other visitors have 
        access to the Commonwealth without unnecessary delay or 
        impediment. The agreements may also allocate funding between 
        the respective agencies tasked with various responsibilities 
        under this section.
            ``(6) Certain education funding.--In addition to fees 
        charged pursuant to section 286(m) of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(m)) to recover the full costs of 
        providing adjudication services, the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security shall charge an annual supplemental fee of $150 per 
        nonimmigrant worker to each prospective employer who is issued 
        a permit under subsection (d) of this section during the 
        transition period. Such supplemental fee shall be paid into the 
        Treasury of the Commonwealth government for the purpose of 
        funding ongoing vocational educational curricula and program 
        development by Commonwealth educational entities.
            ``(7) Asylum.--Section 208 of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1158) shall not apply during the 
        transition period to persons physically present in the 
        Commonwealth or arriving in the Commonwealth (whether or not at 
        a designated port of arrival), including persons brought to the 
        Commonwealth after having been interdicted in international or 
        United States waters.
    ``(b) Numerical Limitations for Nonimmigrant Workers.--An alien, if 
otherwise qualified, may seek admission to Guam or to the Commonwealth 
during the transition program as a nonimmigrant worker under section 
101(a)(15)(H) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1101(a)(15)(H)) without counting against the numerical limitations set 
forth in section 214(g) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)). This subsection 
does not apply to any employment to be performed outside of Guam or the 
Commonwealth. Not later than 3 years following the transition program 
effective date, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall issue a report 
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on 
the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources and 
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives 
projecting the number of asylum claims the Secretary anticipates 
following the termination of the transition period, the efforts the 
Secretary has made to ensure appropriate interdiction efforts, provide 
for appropriate treatment of asylum seekers, and prepare to accept and 
adjudicate asylum claims in the Commonwealth.
    ``(c) Nonimmigrant Investor Visas.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding the treaty requirements 
        in section 101(a)(15)(E) of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
        (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(E)), during the transition period, the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security may, upon the application of an 
        alien, classify an alien as a CNMI-only nonimmigrant under 
        section 101(a)(15)(E)(ii) of the Immigration and Nationality 
        Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(E)(ii)) if the alien--
                    ``(A) has been admitted to the Commonwealth in 
                long-term investor status under the immigration laws of 
                the Commonwealth before the transition program 
                effective date;
                    ``(B) has continuously maintained residence in the 
                Commonwealth under long-term investor status;
                    ``(C) is otherwise admissible; and
                    ``(D) maintains the investment or investments that 
                formed the basis for such long-term investor status.
            ``(2) Requirement for regulations.--Not later than 60 days 
        before the transition program effective date, the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security shall publish regulations in the Federal 
        Register to implement this subsection.
    ``(d) Special Provision To Ensure Adequate Employment; Commonwealth 
Only Transitional Workers.--An alien who is seeking to enter the 
Commonwealth as a nonimmigrant worker may be admitted to perform work 
during the transition period subject to the following requirements:
            ``(1) Such an alien shall be treated as a nonimmigrant 
        described in section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)), including the ability 
        to apply, if otherwise eligible, for a change of nonimmigrant 
        classification under section 248 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1258) or 
        adjustment of status under this section and section 245 of such 
        Act (8 U.S.C. 1255).
            ``(2) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish, 
        administer, and enforce a system for allocating and determining 
        the number, terms, and conditions of permits to be issued to 
        prospective employers for each such nonimmigrant worker 
        described in this subsection who would not otherwise be 
        eligible for admission under the Immigration and Nationality 
        Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.). In adopting and enforcing this 
        system, the Secretary shall also consider, in good faith and 
        not later than 30 days after receipt by the Secretary, any 
        comments and advice submitted by the Governor of the 
        Commonwealth. This system shall provide for a reduction in the 
        allocation of permits for such workers on an annual basis, to 
        zero, during a period not to extend beyond December 31, 2013, 
        unless extended pursuant to paragraph 5 of this subsection, and 
        shall take into account the number of petitions granted under 
        subsection (i). In no event shall a permit be valid beyond the 
        expiration of the transition period. This system may be based 
        on any reasonable method and criteria determined by the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security to promote the maximum use of, 
        and to prevent adverse effects on wages and working conditions 
        of, workers authorized to be employed in the United States, 
        including lawfully admissible freely associated state citizen 
        labor. No alien shall be granted nonimmigrant classification or 
        a visa under this subsection unless the permit requirements 
        established under this paragraph have been met.
            ``(3) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall set the 
        conditions for admission of such an alien under the transition 
        program, and the Secretary of State shall authorize the 
        issuance of nonimmigrant visas for such an alien. Such a visa 
        shall not be valid for admission to the United States, as 
        defined in section 101(a)(38) of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(38)), except admission to the 
        Commonwealth. An alien admitted to the Commonwealth on the 
        basis of such a visa shall be permitted to engage in employment 
        only as authorized pursuant to the transition program.
            ``(4) Such an alien shall be permitted to transfer between 
        employers in the Commonwealth during the period of such alien's 
        authorized stay therein, without permission of the employee's 
        current or prior employer, within the alien's occupational 
        category or another occupational category the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security has found requires alien workers to 
        supplement the resident workforce.
            ``(5)(A) Not later than 180 days prior to the expiration of 
        the transition period, or any extension thereof, the Secretary 
        of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Governor of 
        the Commonwealth, shall ascertain the current and anticipated 
        labor needs of the Commonwealth and determine whether an 
        extension of up to 5 years of the provisions of this subsection 
        is necessary to ensure an adequate number of workers will be 
        available for legitimate businesses in the Commonwealth. For 
        the purpose of this subparagraph, a business shall not be 
        considered legitimate if it engages directly or indirectly in 
        prostitution, trafficking in minors, or any other activity that 
        is illegal under Federal or local law. The determinations of 
        whether a business is legitimate and to what extent, if any, it 
        may require alien workers to supplement the resident workforce, 
        shall be made by the Secretary of Homeland Security, in the 
        Secretary's sole discretion.
            ``(B) If the Secretary of Labor determines that such an 
        extension is necessary to ensure an adequate number of workers 
        for legitimate businesses in the Commonwealth, the Secretary of 
        Labor may, through notice published in the Federal Register, 
        provide for an additional extension period of up to 5 years.
            ``(C) In making the determination of whether alien workers 
        are necessary to ensure an adequate number of workers for 
        legitimate businesses in the Commonwealth, and if so, the 
        number of such workers that are necessary, the Secretary of 
        Labor may consider, among other relevant factors--
                    ``(i) government, industry, or independent 
                workforce studies reporting on the need, or lack 
                thereof, for alien workers in the Commonwealth's 
                businesses;
                    ``(ii) the unemployment rate of United States 
                citizen workers residing in the Commonwealth;
                    ``(iii) the unemployment rate of aliens in the 
                Commonwealth who have been lawfully admitted for 
                permanent residence;
                    ``(iv) the number of unemployed alien workers in 
                the Commonwealth;
                    ``(v) any good faith efforts to locate, educate, 
                train, or otherwise prepare United States citizen 
                residents, lawful permanent residents, and unemployed 
                alien workers already within the Commonwealth, to 
                assume those jobs;
                    ``(vi) any available evidence tending to show that 
                United States citizen residents, lawful permanent 
                residents, and unemployed alien workers already in the 
                Commonwealth are not willing to accept jobs of the type 
                offered;
                    ``(vii) the extent to which admittance of alien 
                workers will affect the compensation, benefits, and 
                living standards of existing workers within those 
                industries and other industries authorized to employ 
                alien workers; and
                    ``(viii) the prior use, if any, of alien workers to 
                fill those industry jobs, and whether the industry 
                requires alien workers to fill those jobs.
            ``(6) The Secretary of Homeland Security may authorize the 
        admission of a spouse or minor child accompanying or following 
        to join a worker admitted pursuant to this subsection.
    ``(e) Persons Lawfully Admitted Under the Commonwealth Immigration 
Law.--
            ``(1) Prohibition on removal.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), no 
                alien who is lawfully present in the Commonwealth 
                pursuant to the immigration laws of the Commonwealth on 
                the transition program effective date shall be removed 
                from the United States on the grounds that such alien's 
                presence in the Commonwealth is in violation of section 
                212(a)(6)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
                U.S.C. 1182(a)(6)(A)), until the earlier of the date--
                            ``(i) of the completion of the period of 
                        the alien's admission under the immigration 
                        laws of the Commonwealth; or
                            ``(ii) that is 2 years after the transition 
                        program effective date.
                    ``(B) Limitations.--Nothing in this subsection 
                shall be construed to prevent or limit the removal 
                under subparagraph 212(a)(6)(A) of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(6)(A)) of such an 
                alien at any time, if the alien entered the 
                Commonwealth after the date of enactment of the 
                National Forests, Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation 
                Projects Authorization Act of 2007, and the Secretary 
                of Homeland Security has determined that the Government 
                of the Commonwealth has violated section 702(i) of the 
                National Forests, Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation 
                Projects Authorization Act of 2007.
            ``(2) Employment authorization.--An alien who is lawfully 
        present and authorized to be employed in the Commonwealth 
        pursuant to the immigration laws of the Commonwealth on the 
        transition program effective date shall be considered 
        authorized by the Secretary of Homeland Security to be employed 
        in the Commonwealth until the earlier of the date--
                    ``(A) of expiration of the alien's employment 
                authorization under the immigration laws of the 
                Commonwealth; or
                    ``(B) that is 2 years after the transition program 
                effective date.
            ``(3) Registration.--The Secretary of Homeland Security may 
        require any alien present in the Commonwealth on or after the 
        transition period effective date to register with the Secretary 
        in such a manner, and according to such schedule, as he may in 
        his discretion require. Paragraphs (1) and (2) of this 
        subsection shall not apply to any alien who fails to comply 
        with such registration requirement. Notwithstanding any other 
        law, the Government of the Commonwealth shall provide to the 
        Secretary all Commonwealth immigration records or other 
        information that the Secretary deems necessary to assist the 
        implementation of this paragraph or other provisions of the 
        National Forests, Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation Projects 
        Authorization Act of 2007. Nothing in this paragraph shall 
        modify or limit section 262 of the Immigration and Nationality 
        Act (8 U.S.C. 1302) or other provision of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act relating to the registration of aliens.
            ``(4) Removable aliens.--Except as specifically provided in 
        paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection, nothing in this subsection 
        shall prohibit or limit the removal of any alien who is 
        removable under the Immigration and Nationality Act.
            ``(5) Prior orders of removal.--The Secretary of Homeland 
        Security may execute any administratively final order of 
        exclusion, deportation or removal issued under authority of the 
        immigration laws of the United States before, on, or after the 
        transition period effective date, or under authority of the 
        immigration laws of the Commonwealth before the transition 
        period effective date, upon any subject of such order found in 
        the Commonwealth on or after the transition period effective 
        date, regardless whether the alien has previously been removed 
        from the United States or the Commonwealth pursuant to such 
        order.
    ``(f) Effect on Other Laws.--The provisions of this section and of 
the immigration laws, as defined in section 101(a)(17) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17)), shall, on the 
transition program effective date, supersede and replace all laws, 
provisions, or programs of the Commonwealth relating to the admission 
of aliens and the removal of aliens from the Commonwealth.
    ``(g) Accrual of Time for Purposes of Section 212(a)(9)(B) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act.--No time that an alien is present in 
the Commonwealth in violation of the immigration laws of the 
Commonwealth shall be counted for purposes of inadmissibility under 
section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1182(a)(9)(B)).
    ``(h) Report on Nonresident Guestworker Population.--The Secretary 
of the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, and the Governor of the Commonwealth, shall report to the 
Congress not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of the 
National Forests, Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation Projects 
Authorization Act of 2007. The report shall include--
            ``(1) the number of aliens residing in the Commonwealth;
            ``(2) a description of the legal status (under Federal law) 
        of such aliens;
            ``(3) the number of years each alien has been residing in 
        the Commonwealth;
            ``(4) the current and future requirements of the 
        Commonwealth economy for an alien workforce; and
            ``(5) such recommendations to the Congress, as the 
        Secretary may deem appropriate, related to whether or not the 
        Congress should consider permitting lawfully admitted guest 
        workers lawfully residing in the Commonwealth on such enactment 
        date to apply for long-term status under the immigration and 
        nationality laws of the United States.''.
    (b) Waiver of Requirements for Nonimmigrant Visitors.--The 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 214(a)(1) (8 U.S.C. 1184(a)(1))--
                    (A) by striking ``Guam'' each place such term 
                appears and inserting ``Guam or the Commonwealth of the 
                Northern Mariana Islands''; and
                    (B) by striking ``fifteen'' and inserting ``45'';
            (2) in section 212(a)(7)(B) (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(7)(B)), by 
        amending clause (iii) to read as follows:
                            ``(iii) Guam and northern mariana islands 
                        visa waiver.--For provision authorizing waiver 
                        of clause (i) in the case of visitors to Guam 
                        or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                        Islands, see subsection (l).''; and
            (3) by amending section 212(l) (8 U.S.C. 1182(l)) to read 
        as follows:
    ``(l) Guam and Northern Mariana Islands Visa Waiver Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--The requirement of subsection 
        (a)(7)(B)(i) may be waived by the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security, in the case of an alien applying for admission as a 
        nonimmigrant visitor for business or pleasure and solely for 
        entry into and stay in Guam or the Commonwealth of the Northern 
        Mariana Islands for a period not to exceed 45 days, if the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security, after consultation with the 
        Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of State, the Governor 
        of Guam and the Governor of the Commonwealth of the Northern 
        Mariana Islands, determines that--
                    ``(A) an adequate arrival and departure control 
                system has been developed in Guam and the Commonwealth 
                of the Northern Mariana Islands; and
                    ``(B) such a waiver does not represent a threat to 
                the welfare, safety, or security of the United States 
                or its territories and commonwealths.
            ``(2) Alien waiver of rights.--An alien may not be provided 
        a waiver under this subsection unless the alien has waived any 
        right--
                    ``(A) to review or appeal under this Act an 
                immigration officer's determination as to the 
                admissibility of the alien at the port of entry into 
                Guam or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                Islands; or
                    ``(B) to contest, other than on the basis of an 
                application for withholding of removal under section 
                241(b)(3) of this Act or under the Convention Against 
                Torture, or an application for asylum if permitted 
                under section 208, any action for removal of the alien.
            ``(3) Regulations.--All necessary regulations to implement 
        this subsection shall be promulgated by the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of the 
        Interior and the Secretary of State, on or before the 180th day 
        after the date of enactment of the National Forests, Parks, 
        Public Land, and Reclamation Projects Authorization Act of 
        2007. The promulgation of such regulations shall be considered 
        a foreign affairs function for purposes of section 553(a) of 
        title 5, United States Code. At a minimum, such regulations 
        should include, but not necessarily be limited to--
                    ``(A) a listing of all countries whose nationals 
                may obtain the waiver also provided by this subsection, 
                except that such regulations shall provide for a 
                listing of any country from which the Commonwealth has 
                received a significant economic benefit from the number 
                of visitors for pleasure within the one-year period 
                preceding the date of enactment of the National 
                Forests, Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation Projects 
                Authorization Act of 2007, unless the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security determines that such country's 
                inclusion on such list would represent a threat to the 
                welfare, safety, or security of the United States or 
                its territories; and
                    ``(B) any bonding requirements for nationals of 
                some or all of those countries who may present an 
                increased risk of overstays or other potential 
                problems, if different from such requirements otherwise 
                provided by law for nonimmigrant visitors.
            ``(4) Factors.--In determining whether to grant or continue 
        providing the waiver under this subsection to nationals of any 
        country, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of State, 
        shall consider all factors that the Secretary deems relevant, 
        including electronic travel authorizations, procedures for 
        reporting lost and stolen passports, repatriation of aliens, 
        rates of refusal for nonimmigrant visitor visas, overstays, 
        exit systems, and information exchange.
            ``(5) Suspension.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
        monitor the admission of nonimmigrant visitors to Guam and the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands under this 
        subsection. If the Secretary determines that such admissions 
        have resulted in an unacceptable number of visitors from a 
        country remaining unlawfully in Guam or the Commonwealth of the 
        Northern Mariana Islands, unlawfully obtaining entry to other 
        parts of the United States, or seeking withholding of removal 
        or asylum, or that visitors from a country pose a risk to law 
        enforcement or security interests of Guam or the Commonwealth 
        of the Northern Mariana Islands or of the United States 
        (including the interest in the enforcement of the immigration 
        laws of the United States), the Secretary shall suspend the 
        admission of nationals of such country under this subsection. 
        The Secretary of Homeland Security may in the Secretary's 
        discretion suspend the Guam and Northern Mariana Islands visa 
        waiver program at any time, on a country-by-country basis, for 
        other good cause.
            ``(6) Addition of countries.--The Governor of Guam and the 
        Governor of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands 
        may request the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security to add a particular country to the list of 
        countries whose nationals may obtain the waiver provided by 
        this subsection, and the Secretary of Homeland Security may 
        grant such request after consultation with the Secretary of the 
        Interior and the Secretary of State, and may promulgate 
        regulations with respect to the inclusion of that country and 
        any special requirements the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
        the Secretary's sole discretion, may impose prior to allowing 
        nationals of that country to obtain the waiver provided by this 
        subsection.''.
    (c) Special Nonimmigrant Categories for Guam and the Commonwealth 
of the Northern Mariana Islands.--The Governor of Guam and the Governor 
of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (referred to in 
this subsection as ``CNMI'') may request that the Secretary of Homeland 
Security study the feasibility of creating additional Guam or CNMI-only 
nonimmigrant visas to the extent that existing nonimmigrant visa 
categories under the Immigration and Nationality Act do not provide for 
the type of visitor, the duration of allowable visit, or other 
circumstance. The Secretary of Homeland Security may review such a 
request, and, after consultation with the Secretary of State and the 
Secretary of the Interior, shall issue a report to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources and the Committee on the 
Judiciary of the House of Representatives with respect to the 
feasibility of creating those additional Guam or CNMI-only visa 
categories. Consideration of such additional Guam or CNMI-only visa 
categories may include, but are not limited to, special nonimmigrant 
statuses for investors, students, and retirees, but shall not include 
nonimmigrant status for the purpose of employment in Guam or the CNMI.
    (d) Inspection of Persons Arriving From the Commonwealth of the 
Northern Mariana Islands; Guam and Northern Mariana Islands-Only Visas 
Not Valid for Entry Into Other Parts of the United States.--Section 
212(d)(7) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(7)) 
is amended by inserting ``the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
Islands,'' after ``Guam,''.
    (e) Technical Assistance Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior, in 
        consultation with the Governor of the Commonwealth, the 
        Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of Commerce, and as 
        provided in the Interagency Agreements required to be 
        negotiated under section 6(a)(4) of the Joint Resolution 
        entitled ``A Joint Resolution to approve the `Covenant To 
        Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in 
        Political Union with the United States of America', and for 
        other purposes'', approved March 24, 1976 (Public Law 94-241), 
        as added by subsection (a), shall provide--
                    (A) technical assistance and other support to the 
                Commonwealth to identify opportunities for, and 
                encourage diversification and growth of, the economy of 
                the Commonwealth;
                    (B) technical assistance, including assistance in 
                recruiting, training, and hiring of workers, to assist 
                employers in the Commonwealth in securing employees 
                first from among United States citizens and nationals 
                resident in the Commonwealth and if an adequate number 
                of such workers are not available, from among legal 
                permanent residents, including lawfully admissible 
                citizens of the freely associated states; and
                    (C) technical assistance, including assistance to 
                identify types of jobs needed, identify skills needed 
                to fulfill such jobs, and assistance to Commonwealth 
                educational entities to develop curricula for such job 
                skills to include training teachers and students for 
                such skills.
            (2) Consultation.--In providing such technical assistance 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretaries shall--
                    (A) consult with the Government of the 
                Commonwealth, local businesses, regional banks, 
                educational institutions, and other experts in the 
                economy of the Commonwealth; and
                    (B) assist in the development and implementation of 
                a process to identify opportunities for and encourage 
                diversification and growth of the economy of the 
                Commonwealth and to identify and encourage 
                opportunities to meet the labor needs of the 
                Commonwealth.
            (3) Cost-sharing.--For the provision of technical 
        assistance or support under this paragraph (other than that 
        required to pay the salaries and expenses of Federal 
        personnel), the Secretary of the Interior shall require a non-
        Federal matching contribution of 10 percent.
    (f) Operations.--
            (1) Establishment.--At any time on and after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Attorney General, Secretary of 
        Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Labor may establish and 
        maintain offices and other operations in the Commonwealth for 
        the purpose of carrying out duties under--
                    (A) the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
                1101 et seq.); and
                    (B) the transition program established under 
                section 6 of the Joint Resolution entitled ``A Joint 
                Resolution to approve the `Covenant to Establish a 
                Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in 
                Political Union with the United States of America', and 
                for other purposes'', approved March 24, 1976 (Public 
                Law 94-241), as added by subsection (a).
            (2) Personnel.--To the maximum extent practicable and 
        consistent with the satisfactory performance of assigned duties 
        under applicable law, the Attorney General, Secretary of 
        Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Labor shall recruit and 
        hire personnel from among qualified United States citizens and 
        national applicants residing in the Commonwealth to serve as 
        staff in carrying out operations described in paragraph (1).
    (g) Conforming Amendments to Public Law 94-241.--
            (1) Amendments.--Public Law 94-241 is amended as follows:
                    (A) In section 503 of the covenant set forth in 
                section 1, by striking subsection (a) and redesignating 
                subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (a) and (b), 
                respectively.
                    (B) By striking section 506 of the covenant set 
                forth in section 1.
                    (C) In section 703(b) of the covenant set forth in 
                section 1, by striking ``quarantine, passport, 
                immigration and naturalization'' and inserting 
                ``quarantine and passport''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on the transition program effective date 
        described in section 6 of Public Law 94-241 (as added by 
        subsection (a)).
    (h) Reports to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1 of the first year 
        that is at least 2 full years after the date of enactment of 
        this subtitle, and annually thereafter, the President shall 
        submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the 
        Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Natural Resources and the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
        House of Representatives a report that evaluates the overall 
        effect of the transition program established under section 6 of 
        the Joint Resolution entitled ``A Joint Resolution to approve 
        the `Covenant To Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern 
        Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of 
        America', and for other purposes'', approved March 24, 1976 
        (Public Law 94-241), as added by subsection (a), and the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) on the 
        Commonwealth.
            (2) Contents.--In addition to other topics otherwise 
        required to be included under this subtitle or the amendments 
        made by this subtitle, each report submitted under paragraph 
        (1) shall include a description of the efforts that have been 
        undertaken during the period covered by the report to diversify 
        and strengthen the local economy of the Commonwealth, including 
        efforts to promote the Commonwealth as a tourist destination. 
        The report by the President shall include an estimate for the 
        numbers of nonimmigrant workers described under section 
        101(a)(15)(H) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
        1101(a)(15)(H)) necessary to avoid adverse economic effects in 
        Guam and the Commonwealth.
            (3) GAO report.--The Government Accountability Office shall 
        submit a report to the Congress not later than 2 years after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, to include, at a minimum, 
        the following items:
                    (A) An assessment of the implementation of this 
                subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle, 
                including an assessment of the performance of Federal 
                agencies and the Government of the Commonwealth in 
                meeting congressional intent.
                    (B) An assessment of the short-term and long-term 
                impacts of implementation of this subtitle and the 
                amendments made by this subtitle on the economy of the 
                Commonwealth, including its ability to obtain workers 
                to supplement its resident workforce and to maintain 
                access to its tourists and customers, and any effect on 
                compliance with United States treaty obligations 
                mandating non-refoulement for refugees.
                    (C) An assessment of the economic benefit of the 
                investors ``grandfathered'' under subsection (c) of 
                section 6 of the Joint Resolution entitled ``A Joint 
                Resolution to approve the `Covenant To Establish a 
                Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in 
                Political Union with the United States of America', and 
                for other purposes'', approved March 24, 1976 (Public 
                Law 94-241), as added by subsection (a), and the 
                Commonwealth's ability to attract new investors after 
                the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (D) An assessment of the number of illegal aliens 
                in the Commonwealth, including any Federal and 
                Commonwealth efforts to locate and repatriate them.
            (4) Reports by the local government.--The Governor of the 
        Commonwealth may submit an annual report to the President on 
        the implementation of this subtitle, and the amendments made by 
        this subtitle, with recommendations for future changes. The 
        President shall forward the Governor's report to the Congress 
        with any Administration comment after an appropriate period of 
        time for internal review, provided that nothing in this 
        paragraph shall be construed to require the President to 
        provide any legislative recommendation to the Congress.
            (5) Report on federal personnel and resource 
        requirements.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
        after consulting with the Secretary of the Interior and other 
        departments and agencies as may be deemed necessary, shall 
        submit a report to the Committee on Natural Resources, the 
        Committee on Homeland Security, and the Committee on the 
        Judiciary of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee 
        on Energy and Natural Resources, the Committee on Homeland 
        Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee on the 
        Judiciary of the Senate, on the current and planned levels of 
        Transportation Security Administration, United States Customs 
        and Border Protection, United States Immigration and Customs 
        Enforcement, United States Citizenship and Immigration 
        Services, and United States Coast Guard personnel and resources 
        necessary for fulfilling mission requirements on Guam and the 
        Commonwealth in a manner comparable to the level provided at 
        other similar ports of entry in the United States. In 
        fulfilling this reporting requirement, the Secretary shall 
        consider and anticipate the increased requirements due to the 
        proposed realignment of military forces on Guam and in the 
        Commonwealth and growth in the tourism sector.
    (i) Required Actions Prior to Transition Program Effective Date.--
During the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and 
ending on the transition program effective date described in section 6 
of Public Law 94-241 (as added by subsection (a)), the Government of 
the Commonwealth shall--
            (1) not permit an increase in the total number of alien 
        workers who are present in the Commonwealth as of the date of 
        enactment of this Act; and
            (2) administer its nonrefoulement protection program--
                    (A) according to the terms and procedures set forth 
                in the Memorandum of Agreement entered into between the 
                Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands and the 
                United States Department of Interior, Office of Insular 
                Affairs, executed on September 12, 2003 (which terms 
                and procedures, including but not limited to funding by 
                the Secretary of the Interior and performance by the 
                Secretary of Homeland Security of the duties of 
                ``Protection Consultant'' to the Commonwealth, shall 
                have effect on and after the date of enactment of this 
                Act), as well as CNMI Public Law 13-61 and the 
                Immigration Regulations Establishing a Procedural 
                Mechanism for Persons Requesting Protection from 
                Refoulement; and
                    (B) so as not to remove or otherwise effect the 
                involuntary return of any alien whom the Protection 
                Consultant has determined to be eligible for protection 
                from persecution or torture.
    (j) Conforming Amendments to the Immigration and Nationality Act.--
The Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 101(a)(15)(D)(ii), by inserting ``or the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands'' after ``Guam'' 
        each time such term appears;
            (2) in section 101(a)(36), by striking ``and the Virgin 
        Islands of the United States'' and inserting ``the Virgin 
        Islands of the United States, and the Commonwealth of the 
        Northern Mariana Islands'';
            (3) in section 101(a)(38), by striking ``and the Virgin 
        Islands of the United States'' and inserting ``the Virgin 
        Islands of the United States, and the Commonwealth of the 
        Northern Mariana Islands'';
            (4) in section 208, by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.--The provisions 
of this section and section 209(b) shall apply to persons physically 
present in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands or arriving 
in the Commonwealth (whether or not at a designated port of arrival and 
including persons who are brought to the Commonwealth after having been 
interdicted in international or United States waters) only on or after 
January 1, 2014.''; and
            (5) in section 235(b)(1), by adding at the end the 
        following:
                    ``(G) Commonwealth of the northern mariana 
                islands.--Nothing in this subsection shall be construed 
                to authorize or require any person described in section 
                208(e) to be permitted to apply for asylum under 
                section 208 at any time before January 1, 2014.''.
    (k) Availability of Other Nonimmigrant Professionals.--The 
requirements of section 212(m)(6)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(m)(6)(B)) shall not apply to a facility in Guam, the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Virgin Islands.

SEC. 703. FURTHER AMENDMENTS TO PUBLIC LAW 94-241.

    Public Law 94-241, as amended, is further amended in section 
4(c)(3) by striking the colon after ``Marshall Islands'' and inserting 
the following: ``, except that $200,000 in fiscal year 2009 and 
$225,000 annually for fiscal years 2010 through 2018 are hereby 
rescinded; Provided, That the amount rescinded shall be increased by 
the same percentage as that of the annual salary and benefit 
adjustments for Members of Congress''.

SEC. 704. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this subtitle.

SEC. 705. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) In General.--Except as specifically provided in this section or 
otherwise in this subtitle, this subtitle and the amendments made by 
this subtitle shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Amendments to the Immigration and Nationality Act.--The 
amendments to the Immigration and Nationality Act made by this 
subtitle, and other provisions of this subtitle applying the 
immigration laws (as defined in section 101(a)(17) of Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17))) to the Commonwealth, shall take 
effect on the transition program effective date described in section 6 
of Public Law 94-241 (as added by section 702(a)), unless specifically 
provided otherwise in this subtitle.
    (c) Construction.--Nothing in this subtitle or the amendments made 
by this subtitle shall be construed to make any residence or presence 
in the Commonwealth before the transition program effective date 
described in section 6 of Public Law 94-241 (as added by section 
702(a)) residence or presence in the United States, except that, for 
the purpose only of determining whether an alien lawfully admitted for 
permanent residence (as defined in section 101(a)(20) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20))) has abandoned 
or lost such status by reason of absence from the United States, such 
alien's presence in the Commonwealth before, on, or after the date of 
enactment of this Act shall be considered to be presence in the United 
States.

             Subtitle B--Northern Mariana Islands Delegate

SEC. 711. DELEGATE TO HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES FROM COMMONWEALTH OF THE 
              NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS.

    The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be 
represented in the United States Congress by the Resident 
Representative to the United States authorized by section 901 of the 
Covenant To Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in 
Political Union With the United States of America (approved by Public 
Law 94-241 (48 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.)). The Resident Representative shall 
be a nonvoting Delegate to the House of Representatives, elected as 
provided in this subtitle.

SEC. 712. ELECTION OF DELEGATE.

    (a) Electors and Time of Election.--The Delegate shall be elected--
            (1) by the people qualified to vote for the popularly 
        elected officials of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
        Islands; and
            (2) at the Federal general election of 2008 and at such 
        Federal general election every 2d year thereafter.
    (b) Manner of Election.--
            (1) In general.--The Delegate shall be elected at large and 
        by a plurality of the votes cast for the office of Delegate.
            (2) Effect of establishment of primary elections.--
        Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if the Government of the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, acting pursuant 
        to legislation enacted in accordance with the Constitution of 
        the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, provides for 
        primary elections for the election of the Delegate, the 
        Delegate shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast in 
        any general election for the office of Delegate for which such 
        primary elections were held.
    (c) Vacancy.--In case of a permanent vacancy in the office of 
Delegate, the office of Delegate shall remain vacant until a successor 
is elected and qualified.
    (d) Commencement of Term.--The term of the Delegate shall commence 
on the 3d day of January following the date of the election.

SEC. 713. QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE OF DELEGATE.

    To be eligible for the office of Delegate a candidate shall--
            (1) be at least 25 years of age on the date of the 
        election;
            (2) have been a citizen of the United States for at least 7 
        years prior to the date of the election;
            (3) be a resident and domiciliary of the Commonwealth of 
        the Northern Mariana Islands for at least 7 years prior to the 
        date of the election;
            (4) be qualified to vote in the Commonwealth of the 
        Northern Mariana Islands on the date of the election; and
            (5) not be, on the date of the election, a candidate for 
        any other office.

SEC. 714. DETERMINATION OF ELECTION PROCEDURE.

    Acting pursuant to legislation enacted in accordance with the 
Constitution of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the 
Government of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands may 
determine the order of names on the ballot for election of Delegate, 
the method by which a special election to fill a permanent vacancy in 
the office of Delegate shall be conducted, the method by which ties 
between candidates for the office of Delegate shall be resolved, and 
all other matters of local application pertaining to the election and 
the office of Delegate not otherwise expressly provided for in this 
subtitle.

SEC. 715. COMPENSATION, PRIVILEGES, AND IMMUNITIES.

    Until the Rules of the House of Representatives are amended to 
provide otherwise, the Delegate from the Commonwealth of the Northern 
Mariana Islands shall receive the same compensation, allowances, and 
benefits as a Member of the House of Representatives, and shall be 
entitled to whatever privileges and immunities are, or hereinafter may 
be, granted to any other nonvoting Delegate to the House of 
Representatives.

SEC. 716. LACK OF EFFECT ON COVENANT.

    No provision of this subtitle shall be construed to alter, amend, 
or abrogate any provision of the covenant referred to in section 711 
except section 901 of the covenant.

SEC. 717. DEFINITION.

    For purposes of this subtitle, the term ``Delegate'' means the 
Resident Representative referred to in section 711.

SEC. 718. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS REGARDING APPOINTMENTS TO MILITARY 
              SERVICE ACADEMIES BY DELEGATE FROM THE COMMONWEALTH OF 
              THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS.

    (a) United States Military Academy.--Section 4342(a)(10) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``resident 
representative'' and inserting ``Delegate in Congress''.
    (b) United States Naval Academy.--Section 6954(a)(10) of such title 
is amended by striking ``resident representative'' and inserting 
``Delegate in Congress''.
    (c) United States Air Force Academy.--Section 9342(a)(10) of such 
title is amended by striking ``resident representative'' and inserting 
``Delegate in Congress''.

          TITLE VIII--COMPACTS OF FREE ASSOCIATION AMENDMENTS

SEC. 801. APPROVAL OF AGREEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 101 of the Compact of Free Association 
Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), by inserting 
        before the period at the end the following: ``, including 
        Article X of the Federal Programs and Services Agreement 
        Between the Government of the United States and the Government 
        of the Federated States of Micronesia, as amended under the 
        Agreement to Amend Article X that was signed by those two 
        Governments on June 30, 2004, which shall serve as the 
        authority to implement the provisions thereof''; and
            (2) in the first sentence of subsection (b), by inserting 
        before the period at the end the following: ``, including 
        Article X of the Federal Programs and Services Agreement 
        Between the Government of the United States and the Government 
        of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as amended under the 
        Agreement to Amend Article X that was signed by those two 
        Governments on June 18, 2004, which shall serve as the 
        authority to implement the provisions thereof''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall be 
effective as of April 30, 2008.

SEC. 802. FUNDS TO FACILITATE FEDERAL ACTIVITIES.

    Unobligated amounts appropriated before the date of enactment of 
this Act pursuant to section 105(f)(1)(A)(ii) of the Compact of Free 
Association Amendments Act of 2003 shall be available to both the 
United States Agency for International Development and the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency to facilitate each agency's activities 
under the Federal Programs and Services Agreements.

SEC. 803. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 105(f)(1)(A) of the Compact of Free 
Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921d(f)(1)(A)) is 
amended to read as follows:
                    ``(A) Emergency and disaster assistance.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), 
                        section 221(a)(6) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and 
                        section 221(a)(5) of the U.S.-RMI Compact shall 
                        each be construed and applied in accordance 
                        with the two Agreements to Amend Article X of 
                        the Federal Programs and Service Agreements 
                        signed on June 30, 2004, and on June 18, 2004, 
                        respectively, provided that all activities 
                        carried out by the United States Agency for 
                        International Development and the Federal 
                        Emergency Management Agency under Article X of 
                        the Federal Programs and Services Agreements 
                        may be carried out notwithstanding any other 
                        provision of law. In the sections referred to 
                        in this clause, the term `United States Agency 
                        for International Development, Office of 
                        Foreign Disaster Assistance' shall be construed 
                        to mean `the United States Agency for 
                        International Development'.
                            ``(ii) Definition of will provide 
                        funding.--In the second sentence of paragraph 
                        12 of each of the Agreements described in 
                        clause (i), the term `will provide funding' 
                        means will provide funding through a transfer 
                        of funds using Standard Form 1151 or a similar 
                        document or through an interagency, 
                        reimbursable agreement.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall be 
effective as of April 30, 2008.

SEC. 804. CLARIFICATIONS REGARDING PALAU.

    Section 105(f)(1)(B) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments 
Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921d(f)(1)(B)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (ii)(II), by striking ``and its territories'' 
        and inserting ``, its territories, and the Republic of Palau'';
            (2) in clause (iii)(II), by striking ``, or the Republic of 
        the Marshall Islands'' and inserting ``, the Republic of the 
        Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau''; and
            (3) in clause (ix)--
                    (A) by striking ``Republic'' both places it appears 
                and inserting ``government, institutions, and people'';
                    (B) by striking ``2007'' and inserting ``2009''; 
                and
                    (C) by striking ``was'' and inserting ``were''.

SEC. 805. AVAILABILITY OF LEGAL SERVICES.

    Section 105(f)(1)(C) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments 
Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921d(f)(1)(C)) is amended by inserting before 
the period at the end the following: ``, which shall also continue to 
be available to the citizens of the Federated States of Micronesia, the 
Republic of Palau, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands who legally 
reside in the United States (including territories and possessions)''.

SEC. 806. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Title I.--
            (1) Section 177 agreement.--Section 103(c)(1) of the 
        Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
        1921b(c)(1)) is amended by striking ``section 177'' and 
        inserting ``Section 177''.
            (2) Interpretation and united states policy.--Section 104 
        of the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 
        U.S.C. 1921c) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``the'' 
                before ``U.S.-RMI Compact,'';
                    (B) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A) of paragraph (8), by striking ``to 
                        include'' and inserting ``and include'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (9)(A), by inserting a 
                        comma after ``may''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (10), by striking 
                        ``related to service'' and inserting ``related 
                        to such services''; and
                    (C) in the first sentence of subsection (j), by 
                inserting ``the'' before ``Interior''.
            (3) Supplemental provisions.--Section 105(b)(1) of the 
        Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 
        1921d(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``Trust Fund'' and 
        inserting ``Trust Funds''.
    (b) Title II.--
            (1) U.S.-FSM compact.--The Compact of Free Association, as 
        amended, between the Government of the United States of America 
        and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia (as 
        provided in section 201(a) of the Compact of Free Association 
        Amendments Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 2757)) is amended--
                    (A) in section 174--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by striking 
                        ``courts'' and inserting ``court''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b)(2), by striking 
                        ``the'' before ``November'';
                    (B) in section 177(a), by striking ``, or Palau'' 
                and inserting ``(or Palau)'';
                    (C) in section 179(b), by striking ``amended 
                Compact'' and inserting ``Compact, as amended,'';
                    (D) in section 211--
                            (i) in the fourth sentence of subsection 
                        (a), by striking ``Compact, as Amended, of Free 
                        Association'' and inserting ``Compact of Free 
                        Association, as amended'';
                            (ii) in the fifth sentence of subsection 
                        (a), by striking ``Trust Fund Agreement,'' and 
                        inserting ``Agreement Between the Government of 
                        the United States of America and the Government 
                        of the Federated States of Micronesia 
                        Implementing Section 215 and Section 216 of the 
                        Compact, as Amended, Regarding a Trust Fund 
                        (Trust Fund Agreement),'';
                            (iii) in subsection (b)--
                                    (I) in the first sentence, by 
                                striking ``Government of the'' before 
                                ``Federated''; and
                                    (II) in the second sentence, by 
                                striking ``Sections 321 and 323 of the 
                                Compact of Free Association, as 
                                Amended'' and inserting ``Sections 
                                211(b), 321, and 323 of the Compact of 
                                Free Association, as amended,''; and
                            (iv) in the last sentence of subsection 
                        (d), by inserting before the period at the end 
                        the following: ``and the Federal Programs and 
                        Services Agreement referred to in section 
                        231'';
                    (E) in the first sentence of section 215(b), by 
                striking ``subsection(a)'' and inserting ``subsection 
                (a)'';
                    (F) in section 221--
                            (i) in subsection (a)(6), by inserting 
                        ``(Federal Emergency Management Agency)'' after 
                        ``Homeland Security''; and
                            (ii) in the first sentence of subsection 
                        (c), by striking ``agreements'' and inserting 
                        ``agreement'';
                    (G) in the second sentence of section 222, by 
                inserting ``in'' after ``referred to'';
                    (H) in the second sentence of section 232, by 
                striking ``sections 102 (c)'' and all that follows 
                through ``January 14, 1986)'' and inserting ``section 
                102(b) of Public Law 108-188, 117 Stat. 2726, December 
                17, 2003'';
                    (I) in the second sentence of section 252, by 
                inserting ``, as amended,'' after ``Compact'';
                    (J) in the first sentence of the first undesignated 
                paragraph of section 341, by striking ``Section 141'' 
                and inserting ``section 141'';
                    (K) in section 342--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by striking ``14 
                        U.S.C. 195'' and inserting ``section 195 of 
                        title 14, United States Code''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b)--
                                    (I) by striking ``46 U.S.C. 
                                1295(b)(6)'' and inserting ``section 
                                1303(b)(6) of the Merchant Marine Act, 
                                1936 (46 U.S.C. 1295b(b)(6))''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``46 U.S.C. 
                                1295b(b)(6)(C)'' and inserting 
                                ``section 1303(b)(6)(C) of that Act'';
                    (L) in the third sentence of section 354(a), by 
                striking ``section 442 and 452'' and inserting 
                ``sections 442 and 452'';
                    (M) in section 461(h), by striking 
                ``Telecommunications'' and inserting 
                ``Telecommunication'';
                    (N) in section 462(b)(4), by striking ``of Free 
                Association'' the second place it appears; and
                    (O) in section 463(b), by striking ``Articles IV'' 
                and inserting ``Article IV''.
            (2) U.S.-RMI compact.--The Compact of Free Association, as 
        amended, between the Government of the United States of America 
        and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands (as 
        provided in section 201(b) of the Compact of Free Association 
        Amendments Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 2795)) is amended--
                    (A) in section 174(a), by striking ``court'' and 
                inserting ``courts'';
                    (B) in section 177(a), by striking the comma before 
                ``(or Palau)'';
                    (C) in section 179(b), by striking ``amended 
                Compact,'' and inserting ``Compact, as amended,'';
                    (D) in section 211--
                            (i) in the fourth sentence of subsection 
                        (a), by striking ``Compact, as Amended, of Free 
                        Association'' and inserting ``Compact of Free 
                        Association, as amended'';
                            (ii) in the first sentence of subsection 
                        (b), by striking ``Agreement between the 
                        Government of the United States and the 
                        Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
                        Islands Regarding Miliary Use and Operating 
                        Rights'' and inserting ``Agreement Regarding 
                        the Military Use and Operating Rights of the 
                        Government of the United States in the Republic 
                        of the Marshall Islands concluded Pursuant to 
                        Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free 
                        Association, as Amended (Agreement between the 
                        Government of the United States and the 
                        Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
                        Islands Regarding Military Use and Operating 
                        Rights)''; and
                            (iii) in the last sentence of subsection 
                        (e), by inserting before the period at the end 
                        the following: ``and the Federal Programs and 
                        Services Agreement referred to in section 
                        231'';
                    (E) in section 221(a)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
                        by striking ``Section 231'' and inserting 
                        ``section 231''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (5), by inserting 
                        ``(Federal Emergency Management Agency)'' after 
                        ``Homeland Security'';
                    (F) in the second sentence of section 232, by 
                striking ``sections 103(m)'' and all that follows 
                through ``(January 14, 1986)'' and inserting ``section 
                103(k) of Public Law 108-188, 117 Stat. 2734, December 
                17, 2003'';
                    (G) in the first sentence of section 341, by 
                striking ``Section 141'' and inserting ``section 141'';
                    (H) in section 342--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by striking ``14 
                        U.S.C. 195'' and inserting ``section 195 of 
                        title 14, United States Code''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b)--
                                    (I) by striking ``46 U.S.C. 
                                1295(b)(6)'' and inserting ``section 
                                1303(b)(6) of the Merchant Marine Act, 
                                1936 (46 U.S.C. 1295b(b)(6))''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``46 U.S.C. 
                                1295b(b)(6)(C)'' and inserting 
                                ``section 1303(b)(6)(C) of that Act'';
                    (I) in the third sentence of section 354(a), by 
                striking ``section 442 and 452'' and inserting 
                ``sections 442 and 452'';
                    (J) in the first sentence of section 443, by 
                inserting ``, as amended.'' after ``the Compact'';
                    (K) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) of 
                section 461(h)--
                            (i) by striking ``1978'' and inserting 
                        ``1998''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Telecommunications'' and 
                        inserting ``Telecommunication Union''; and
                    (L) in section 463(b), by striking ``Article'' and 
                inserting ``Articles''.

SEC. 807. TRANSMISSION OF VIDEOTAPE PROGRAMMING.

    Section 111(e)(2) of title 17, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands'' and 
inserting ``the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of Palau, 
or the Republic of the Marshall Islands''.

SEC. 808. PALAU ROAD MAINTENANCE.

    The Government of the Republic of Palau may deposit the payment 
otherwise payable to the Government of the United States under section 
111 of Public Law 101-219 (48 U.S.C. 1960) into a trust fund if--
            (1) the earnings of the trust fund are expended solely for 
        maintenance of the road system constructed pursuant to section 
        212 of the Compact of Free Association between the Government 
        of the United States of America and the Government of Palau (48 
        U.S.C. 1931 note); and
            (2) the trust fund is established and operated pursuant to 
        an agreement entered into between the Government of the United 
        States and the Government of the Republic of Palau.

SEC. 809. CLARIFICATION OF TAX-FREE STATUS OF TRUST FUNDS.

    In the U.S.-RMI Compact, the U.S.-FSM Compact, and their respective 
trust fund subsidiary agreements, for the purposes of taxation by the 
United States or its subsidiary jurisdictions, the term ``State'' means 
``State, territory, or the District of Columbia''.

SEC. 810. TRANSFER OF NAVAL VESSELS TO CERTAIN FOREIGN RECIPIENTS.

    (a) Transfers by Grant.--The President is authorized to transfer 
vessels to foreign countries on a grant basis under section 516 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321j), as follows:
            (1) Turkey.--To the Government of Turkey--
                    (A) the OLIVER HAZARD PERRY class guided missile 
                frigates GEORGE PHILIP (FFG-12) and SIDES (FFG-14); and
                    (B) the OSPREY class minehunter coastal ship 
                BLACKHAWK (MHC-58).
            (2) Lithuania.--To the Government of Lithuania, the OSPREY 
        class minehunter coastal ships CORMORANT (MHC-57) and 
        KINGFISHER (MHC-56).
    (b) Transfers by Sale.--The President is authorized to transfer 
vessels to foreign recipients on a sale basis under section 21 of the 
Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2761), as follows:
            (1) Taiwan.--To the Taipei Economic and Cultural 
        Representative Office in the United States (which is the Taiwan 
        instrumentality designated pursuant to section 10(a) of the 
        Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3309(a))), the OSPREY class 
        minehunter coastal ships ORIOLE (MHC-55) and FALCON (MHC-59).
            (2) Turkey.--To the Government of Turkey, the OSPREY class 
        minehunter coastal ship SHRIKE (MHC-62).
    (c) Grants Not Counted in Annual Total of Transferred Excess 
Defense Articles.--The value of a vessel transferred to a recipient on 
a grant basis pursuant to authority provided by subsection (a) shall 
not be counted against the aggregate value of excess defense articles 
transferred in any fiscal year under section 516(g) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961.
    (d) Costs of Transfers.--Any expense incurred by the United States 
in connection with a transfer authorized by this section shall be 
charged to the recipient.
    (e) Repair and Refurbishment in United States Shipyards.--To the 
maximum extent practicable, the President shall require, as a condition 
of the transfer of a vessel under this section, that the recipient to 
which the vessel is transferred have such repair or refurbishment of 
the vessel as is needed before the vessel joins the naval forces of the 
recipient performed at a shipyard located in the United States, 
including a United States Navy shipyard.
    (f) Expiration of Authority.--The authority to transfer a vessel 
under this section shall expire at the end of the 2-year period 
beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
                                                       Calendar No. 546

110th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 2483

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To authorize certain programs and activities in the Forest Service, the 
Department of the Interior, and the Department of Energy, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           December 14, 2007

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
</pre></body></html>
