<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2466 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2466

 To provide supplemental appropriations for safe and secure water, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 11, 2019

 Mr. Schumer (for Ms. Harris) introduced the following bill; which was 
          read twice and referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide supplemental appropriations for safe and secure water, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Water Justice 
Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
            TITLE I--DRINKING WATER INFRASTRUCTURE EMERGENCY

Sec. 101. Findings.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
Sec. 103. Supplemental appropriations for the drinking water 
                            infrastructure emergency.
            TITLE II--WATER ACCESSIBILITY AND AFFORDABILITY

Sec. 201. Findings.
Sec. 202. Drinking water, wastewater, and stormwater services 
                            assistance needs-based program.
Sec. 203. Establishment of Federal grant program for drinking water 
                            treatment works operation and maintenance.
     TITLE III--INVESTMENTS IN NATIONWIDE WATER INFRASTRUCTURE AND 
                             SUSTAINABILITY

Sec. 301. Findings.
Sec. 302. Reclamation infrastructure finance and innovation pilot 
                            program.
Sec. 303. Water recycling and reuse projects.
Sec. 304. Mandatory spending for water infrastructure programs.
Sec. 305. Expanding and increasing funding for rural individual and 
                            connected water systems programs.
Sec. 306. Increased funding for water management improvement.
Sec. 307. Water Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program.
Sec. 308. Rural water supply program reauthorization.
Sec. 309. Combating PFAS.
Sec. 310. Multi-benefit projects to improve watershed health.

            TITLE I--DRINKING WATER INFRASTRUCTURE EMERGENCY

SEC. 101. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1)(A) everyone has the right to clean and safe drinking 
        water and appropriate sanitation services; and
            (B) the Federal Government has the responsibility to ensure 
        that the rights described in subparagraph (A) are realized;
            (2) the American Society of Civil Engineers assigned a 
        ``D'' grade to the drinking water infrastructure of the United 
        States and the American Water Works Association estimated that 
        $1,000,000,000,000 is necessary to maintain and expand service 
        during the 25-year period beginning on the date of enactment of 
        this Act;
            (3) deterioration and aging of the water infrastructure of 
        the United States has resulted in millions of people of the 
        United States being exposed to unsafe drinking water, including 
        lead contamination;
            (4) exposure to lead can cause serious health problems, 
        especially to young children and pregnant women, including 
        damage to the brain and nervous system, kidney problems, and 
        high blood pressure;
            (5) the Government Accountability Office estimates that 43 
        percent of school districts, serving 35,000,000 students, 
        tested for lead in school drinking water in 2016 or 2017;
            (6) of the schools that tested for lead as described in 
        paragraph (5), an estimated 37 percent found levels of lead 
        above the threshold of the school district for taking remedial 
        action;
            (7) according to the American Water Works Association, 
        approximately 30 percent of surveyed community water systems in 
        the United States reported having some lead-containing service 
        lines;
            (8) the continuing emergency of drinking water 
        contamination in communities like Flint, Michigan, demonstrates 
        the severity of this crisis across the United States;
            (9) many rural areas across the United States also face 
        severe drinking water challenges, as the community water 
        systems serving small populations in the United States often 
        lack sufficient financial and technical resources;
            (10) boil water advisories are a daily occurrence in the 
        United States, and those advisories disproportionately impact 
        small drinking water systems, with some advisories in rural 
        areas lasting for years;
            (11) it is estimated that 13,000,000 households in the 
        United States rely on well water, with no Federal regulation or 
        testing of contaminants;
            (12) past appropriations for the Environmental Protection 
        Agency grant programs that address school drinking water and 
        drinking water contamination in high-risk communities are not 
        sufficient to address the tremendous need throughout the United 
        States;
            (13) investments in infrastructure create jobs while 
        fulfilling critical needs in communities throughout the United 
        States;
            (14) it is estimated that nearly 17,200,000 workers, about 
        12 percent of the United States workforce, were employed in 
        infrastructure jobs in 2018;
            (15) infrastructure occupations often provide more 
        competitive and equitable wages in comparison to all jobs 
        nationally, consistently paying up to 30 percent more to 
        workers at lower ends of the income scale;
            (16) the sixth national assessment by the Environmental 
        Protection Agency of drinking water infrastructure needs shows 
        a total 20-year capital improvement need of $472,600,000,000 
        for public water systems;
            (17) emergency supplemental appropriations for the 
        Environmental Protection Agency, provided in addition to other 
        appropriations and not subject to sequestration, will improve 
        drinking water in schools and high-risk communities and create 
        jobs throughout the United States without reducing funding for 
        other domestic priorities;
            (18) appropriating $50,000,000,000 in fiscal year 2020 for 
        the Environmental Protection Agency, and allowing the funds to 
        remain available for 5 years, will enable States to begin to 
        immediately expand investments in addressing drinking water 
        needs in schools and in high-risk communities throughout the 
        United States;
            (19) a $50,000,000,000 investment in drinking water 
        infrastructure could create 1,250,000 jobs;
            (20) an emergency supplemental appropriation of 
        $50,000,000,000 for the Environmental Protection Agency, to be 
        made available in fiscal year 2020, and to remain available for 
        5 years, will allow States to begin immediately to distribute 
        funds to eligible schools and high-risk communities to develop 
        and implement plans to improve drinking water infrastructure, 
        through accelerated and expanded replacement of lead-based 
        service lines and other critical infrastructure improvements, 
        ensuring an efficient use of funds and timely job creation;
            (21) emergency supplemental appropriations for remediating 
        the drinking water infrastructure emergency in the United 
        States can be leveraged--
                    (A) to create high-quality union jobs; and
                    (B) to expand minority-owned businesses to support 
                the next generation of water infrastructure 
                contractors; and
            (22) an emergency supplemental appropriation of 
        $50,000,000,000 for the Environmental Protection Agency would 
        allow numerous communities to address the water infrastructure 
        needs of those communities and begin to combat the crisis in 
        the United States.

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (2) Disadvantaged community.--The term ``disadvantaged 
        community'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        1452(d)(3) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-
        12(d)(3)).
            (3) High-risk community.--The term ``high-risk community'' 
        means--
                    (A) a disadvantaged community in which drinking 
                water has tested for levels of contaminants, such as 
                lead, copper, mercury, organic chemicals, and other 
                substances, above the contaminant levels allowed under 
                the applicable national primary drinking water 
                regulations (as defined in section 1401 of the Safe 
                Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f)); or
                    (B) in States in which State drinking water 
                contaminant requirements are stricter than the 
                applicable national primary drinking water regulations 
                (as defined in section 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water 
                Act (42 U.S.C. 300f)), a disadvantaged community in 
                which drinking water has tested for levels of 
                contaminants at levels higher than allowed under the 
                applicable State contaminant requirement.

SEC. 103. SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE DRINKING WATER 
              INFRASTRUCTURE EMERGENCY.

    Out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for 
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, $50,000,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2024, is appropriated to the 
Administrator for an additional amount for lead reduction investments 
through the Environmental Protection Agency (including programs such as 
the State response to contaminants grant program under section 1459A(j) 
of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19a(j)), the voluntary 
school and child care program lead testing grant program under section 
1464(d) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-24(d)), and the 
drinking water fountain replacement for schools program under section 
1465 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-25)), or additional 
grant programs (either in existence or to be developed) for projects 
that protect high-risk communities from lead contamination in drinking 
water; provide for technical assistance or mitigation efforts; allow 
for replacement of lead-tainted infrastructure; provide funds for the 
purchase of filters certified by NSF International and the Water 
Quality Association for the removal of contaminants of concern in 
public water systems; or address lead testing in school and child care 
programs for which filtration of water systems in those school and 
child care programs has already been performed:  Provided, That the 
amount under this heading is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)), 
except that such amount shall be available only if the President 
subsequently so designates such amount and transmits such designation 
to Congress.

            TITLE II--WATER ACCESSIBILITY AND AFFORDABILITY

SEC. 201. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Obtaining reliable and affordable water service is 
        becoming increasingly difficult due to aging infrastructure, 
        climate change, and population changes.
            (2) Household water rates have increased by approximately 
        41 percent since 2010. Over the last several decades, the cost 
        for drinking water and wastewater services has risen much more 
        rapidly than other household expenses.
            (3) According to the Environmental Protection Agency, low-
        income households are particularly impacted by water 
        affordability challenges when drinking water, wastewater, and 
        stormwater rates are raised.
            (4) Across the United States, water and wastewater bills 
        have been increasing at more than twice the rate of inflation 
        for nearly 2 decades. Additionally, incomes have barely kept up 
        with inflation over the same period. It is anticipated that 
        rates for water and wastewater services will continue to 
        increase to meet the need for billions of dollars of overdue 
        investment in our Nation's water and wastewater systems.
            (5) The Environmental Protection Agency reports that 
        approximately 15 percent of residential water customers 
        nationally are low-income households that are constantly at 
        risk of being unable to pay their water bills.
            (6) Low-income households are 3 times more likely than 
        other households to have their utility service disconnected for 
        unpaid or overdue bills.
            (7) An estimated 15,000,000 people in the United States 
        experienced a water shutoff in 2016 with the highest shutoff 
        rates in lower-income cities with higher rates of poverty and 
        unemployment.
            (8) In 2017, total appropriations to the Environmental 
        Protection Agency for water infrastructure were 35 percent 
        lower than the corresponding 2001 appropriations (adjusted for 
        inflation) despite massive capital investments being needed for 
        drinking water and wastewater systems.
            (9) Water accessibility is a fundamental element of public 
        health, safety, welfare, and security.

SEC. 202. DRINKING WATER, WASTEWATER, AND STORMWATER SERVICES 
              ASSISTANCE NEEDS-BASED PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Environmentally at-risk household.--The term 
        ``environmentally at-risk household'' means such a household, 
        as defined by the Secretary after consultation with the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
        considering factors such as--
                    (A) the proximity of the household to an 
                environmentally hazardous site, including a Superfund 
                site or coal ash site (as such sites are defined by the 
                Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
                Administration), or brownfield site (as defined in 
                section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental 
                Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
                U.S.C. 9601));
                    (B) whether the household is in an area that is 
                affected by a consent decree relating to compliance 
                with the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
                1251 et seq.);
                    (C) whether the household is in an area that has 
                been found to be in violation of the Safe Drinking 
                Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.) maximum contaminant 
                level for any contaminant; and
                    (D) whether the household is located within 5 miles 
                of a pollution hotspot.
            (2) Household.--The term ``household'' means any individual 
        or group of individuals who are living together as 1 economic 
        unit.
            (3) Low-income household.--The term ``low-income 
        household'' means a household--
                    (A) in which 1 or more individuals are receiving--
                            (i) assistance under a State program funded 
                        under part A of title IV of the Social Security 
                        Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.);
                            (ii) payments under the supplemental 
                        security income program established under title 
                        XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1381 
                        et seq.);
                            (iii) benefits under the supplemental 
                        nutrition assistance program under the Food and 
                        Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.); 
                        or
                            (iv) payments under--
                                    (I) section 1315, 1521, 1541, or 
                                1542 of title 38, United States Code; 
                                or
                                    (II) section 306 of the Veterans' 
                                and Survivors' Pension Improvement Act 
                                of 1978 (38 U.S.C. 1521 note; Public 
                                Law 95-588); or
                    (B) that, subject to subsection (f), has an income 
                that, as determined by the State in which the household 
                is located, does not exceed the greater of--
                            (i) an amount equal to 150 percent of the 
                        poverty level (as defined in section 2603 of 
                        the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 
                        1981 (42 U.S.C. 8622)) for that State; and
                            (ii) an amount equal to 60 percent of the 
                        median income for that State.
            (4) Pollution hotspot.--The term ``pollution hotspot'' 
        means a location where pollution from specific sources may 
        expose an individual or community to an elevated risk of 
        adverse health and safety effects, as determined by the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Health and Human Services.
            (6) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, 
        the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and an Indian 
        tribe (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination 
        and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304)).
            (7) Water burden.--The term ``water burden'' means the 
        expenditures of a household for drinking water, wastewater, and 
        stormwater services, divided by the income of the household.
            (8) Water crisis.--The term ``water crisis'' means weather-
        related and supply shortage emergencies, stormwater flooding, 
        and other household water-related emergencies, relating to 
        drinking water, wastewater, or stormwater services.
    (b) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary is authorized to make 
        grants, in accordance with the provisions of this section, to 
        States to assist low-income households (particularly those with 
        the lowest incomes relative to State poverty levels and median 
        incomes, that pay a high proportion of household income for 
        home drinking water, wastewater, and stormwater services), 
        including environmentally at-risk households that are also low-
        income households, primarily in meeting their immediate home 
        drinking water, wastewater, and stormwater service needs. The 
        Secretary shall make the grants in the amounts of the 
        allotments made under paragraph (2).
            (2) State allotments.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a rule to 
        establish a formula under which the Secretary shall make 
        allotments to States, from the amount authorized under 
        subsection (h) for a fiscal year, for the grants described in 
        paragraph (1). The Secretary shall issue the rule after 
        consultation with States, local and Tribal governments, 
        community stakeholders, and other appropriate entities, in 
        order to develop a formula that allots grant funds based on 
        need to States.
            (3) Public hearings.--After the expiration of the first 
        fiscal year for which a State receives funds under this 
        section, no funds shall be allotted to such State for any 
        fiscal year under this section unless such State conducts 
        public hearings with respect to the proposed use and 
        distribution of funds to be provided under this section for 
        such fiscal year.
    (c) Applications.--
            (1) In general.--Each State desiring to receive an 
        allotment for any fiscal year under this section shall submit 
        an application to the Secretary. Each such application shall be 
        in such form as the Secretary shall require.
            (2) Certifications.--As part of the annual application of a 
        State required by paragraph (1), the chief executive officer of 
        the State shall certify that the State agrees--
                    (A) to use the funds available under this section--
                            (i) to conduct outreach activities and 
                        provide assistance to low-income households and 
                        environmentally at-risk households that are 
                        also low-income households in meeting their 
                        home drinking water, stormwater, and wastewater 
                        service costs, particularly those households 
                        with the lowest incomes that pay a high 
                        proportion of household income for home 
                        drinking water, stormwater, and wastewater 
                        service;
                            (ii) to intervene in water crisis 
                        situations;
                            (iii) to provide cost-effective water 
                        efficiency-related and other water needs-
                        related home repair;
                            (iv) to plan, develop, and administer the 
                        State's program under this section, including 
                        leveraging programs;
                            (v) to develop technical assistance plans 
                        in coordination with parties, agencies, or 
                        governments referred to in subsection (d)(6) or 
                        program beneficiaries;
                            (vi) to prioritize applicants for subgrants 
                        or contracts that include program beneficiaries 
                        in design and implementation of the program; 
                        and
                            (vii) but not more than 5 percent of such 
                        funds, to support community engagement in the 
                        design and implementation of the program;
                    (B) not to use such funds for any purposes other 
                than those specified in this section;
                    (C) to make payments under this section only with 
                respect to--
                            (i) low-income households; and
                            (ii) environmentally at-risk households 
                        that are also low-income households;
                    (D) to conduct outreach activities and develop 
                materials (in a language understandable to targeted 
                households) designed to assure that eligible households 
                (especially households with children, elderly 
                individuals, or individuals with disabilities) and 
                households with high water burdens, are made aware of 
                the assistance available under this section, and any 
                similar water-related assistance;
                    (E) to coordinate its activities under this section 
                with similar and related programs administered by the 
                Federal Government and such State, particularly water-
                related programs for low-income individuals;
                    (F) to provide, in a timely manner, that the 
                highest level of assistance will be furnished to those 
                households which have the lowest incomes and the 
                highest costs or needs for home drinking water, 
                wastewater, or stormwater services in relation to 
                income, taking into account family size;
                    (G) to the extent it is necessary, to designate 
                local administrative agencies or Tribal governments in 
                order to carry out the objectives of this section; and
                    (H) to the extent it is necessary, to deliver 
                services specified in the application through 
                community-based nonprofit entities in such State, by 
                awarding subgrants to, or entering into contracts with, 
                such entities for the purpose of providing such 
                services and payments under this section directly to 
                households eligible for assistance under this section.
            (3) Plan.--As part of the annual application required by 
        paragraph (1), the chief executive officer of the State shall 
        include, in such format as the Secretary may require, a plan 
        which--
                    (A) describes the eligibility requirements to be 
                used by the State for each type of assistance to be 
                provided under this section;
                    (B) describes the benefit levels to be used by the 
                State for each type of assistance including assistance 
                to be provided for drinking water, wastewater, and 
                stormwater service needs;
                    (C) contains estimates of the amount of funds the 
                State will use for each of the programs under such 
                plan;
                    (D) describes water efficiency-related and other 
                water needs-related home repair the State will provide 
                under subsection (d)(6), including any steps the State 
                will take to address the water efficiency-related home 
                repair needs of households that have high water 
                burdens;
                    (E) in the absence of being able to directly 
                measure and quantify water use at the household level, 
                provide a reasonable, unified approach such as using a 
                fixed consumption level for calculating assistance for 
                household drinking water, wastewater, and stormwater 
                service costs; and
                    (F) identifies the types of assistance, such as 
                types described in subsection (d), that may be included 
                in the program of assistance carried out by the State 
                under this section.
    (d) Types of Assistance.--A State that receives a grant under this 
section may use the grant funds to provide, through a State program 
required in subsection (b) a type of assistance that may include--
            (1) direct financial assistance;
            (2) a lifeline rate;
            (3) bill discounting;
            (4) assistance under special hardship provisions;
            (5) assistance through a percentage-of-income payment plan; 
        or
            (6) water efficiency-related and water needs-related home 
        repair, including direct installation of water-efficient 
        fixtures and leak repair, which may be completed by a third 
        party under a subgrant or contract awarded by the State or by a 
        local administrative agency or Tribal government designated by 
        the State.
    (e) Assistance Exempt From Taxation.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, assistance provided to a low-income household or an 
environmentally at-risk household that is also a low-income household 
under a program carried out by the State, a local administrative 
agency, Tribal government, or a community-based nonprofit entity (on 
behalf of households), using a grant under this section shall be exempt 
from income tax under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
    (f) Lower Income Limit.--For purposes of this section, a State may 
adopt an income limit that is lower than the limit described in 
subsection (a)(3)(B), except that the State may not exclude a household 
from eligibility in a fiscal year based solely on household income if 
that income is less than 110 percent of the poverty level for the 
State.
    (g) Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to meeting any other 
        applicable reporting requirements, as a condition of receiving 
        a grant under this section, a State shall prepare and submit to 
        the Secretary an annual report that summarizes, in a manner 
        determined by the Secretary, the program carried out by the 
        State (including any portions carried out through designation 
        of a local administrative agency or Tribal government or the 
        award of a subgrant or contract to a community-based nonprofit 
        entity) under the grant, including--
                    (A) key features;
                    (B) sources of funding;
                    (C) eligibility criteria;
                    (D) participation rates;
                    (E) the monetary benefit per participant;
                    (F) program costs;
                    (G) the demonstrable impacts of the program on 
                arrearage and service disconnection for households, to 
                the maximum extent practicable; and
                    (H) other relevant information required by the 
                Secretary.
            (2) Publication.--The Secretary shall make available to the 
        general public each report submitted under paragraph (1).
    (h) Authorization.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this section $2,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 
2024.

SEC. 203. ESTABLISHMENT OF FEDERAL GRANT PROGRAM FOR DRINKING WATER 
              TREATMENT WORKS OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
(referred to in this section as the ``Administrator'') shall establish 
a grant program (referred to in this section as the ``program'') to 
help communities that serve environmentally at-risk households and low-
income households (as those terms are defined in section 202) afford 
operations and maintenance costs of drinking water treatment.
    (b) Eligible Uses.--A grant provided under the program shall be 
used--
            (1) to help water systems provide adequate and affordable 
        supplies of safe drinking water in both the near- and long-term 
        future; and
            (2) to provide support to help public water systems (as 
        defined in section 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 
        U.S.C. 300f) provide safe and affordable drinking water.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out the program $150,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2020 through 2024.

     TITLE III--INVESTMENTS IN NATIONWIDE WATER INFRASTRUCTURE AND 
                             SUSTAINABILITY

SEC. 301. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) water is an essential resource for farms, cities, and 
        the environment;
            (2) in order to responsibly and sustainably manage water, 
        all different types of water, including water that is stored, 
        drinking water, flood waters, wastewater, recycled water, and 
        other types, should be taken into account;
            (3) according to a survey by the Government Accountability 
        Office of State water managers, at least 40 States anticipate 
        water shortages by 2024, pointing to the need to conserve and 
        sustainably manage water;
            (4) climate change is likely to increase the vulnerability 
        of water supplies for communities and the environment by--
                    (A) increasing the frequency and magnitude of 
                droughts and extreme precipitation events;
                    (B) increasing air temperatures; and
                    (C) changing the patterns and volume of 
                precipitation;
            (5) the water infrastructure of the United States needs 
        additional investment given the age of the infrastructure and 
        emerging issues, such as climate change;
            (6) according to the American Society of Civil Engineers, 
        more than $105,000,000,000 is needed for drinking water and 
        wastewater investment needs;
            (7) a diverse portfolio of water management, storage, 
        recycling, and reuse techniques can help to sustainably and 
        responsibly manage water in the United States;
            (8) reducing water diversions from rivers and lakes is 
        important to sustain--
                    (A) native fish and wildlife; and
                    (B) the communities and Native American tribes that 
                depend on a healthy environment;
            (9) a sustainable water supply relies on--
                    (A) the ability for environmentally sound water 
                storage projects;
                    (B) protection of clean water programs;
                    (C) financing for new technologies;
                    (D) developments and funding for water recycling 
                and reuse projects;
                    (E) improvements to wastewater systems and flood 
                management;
                    (F) increased conservation programs and water 
                efficiency; and
                    (G) instream flows of adequate quality and quantity 
                that protect native fish and wildlife and the 
                environment;
            (10) the 16th Clean Watersheds Needs Survey of the 
        Environmental Protection Agency shows a total 20-year capital 
        improvement need of $271,000,000 to address the water quality 
        objectives of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
        U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
            (11) more than 21,000,000 households lack access to a sewer 
        system and instead rely on expensive septic tanks or cesspools;
            (12) more than 1,700,000 households lack access to basic 
        plumbing in the United States; and
            (13) exposure to raw sewage inside or outside of the home 
        due to inadequate or failing wastewater systems is a severe 
        public health risk.

SEC. 302. RECLAMATION INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE AND INNOVATION PILOT 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in 
this section as the ``Secretary'') shall establish and carry out a 
pilot program under which the Secretary shall provide to eligible 
entities described in subsection (c) financial assistance in accordance 
with this section to carry out eligible projects described in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Eligible Projects and Eligible Project Costs.--
            (1) In general.--A project eligible to receive assistance 
        under the pilot program under this section is a water supply 
        project described in paragraph (2) that, as determined by the 
        Secretary--
                    (A) is located in--
                            (i) the State of Alaska;
                            (ii) the State of Hawaii; or
                            (iii) a Reclamation State (as defined in 
                        section 4014 of the Water Infrastructure 
                        Improvements for the Nation Act (43 U.S.C. 390b 
                        note; Public Law 114-322));
                    (B) would contribute directly or indirectly 
                (including through groundwater recharge) to a safe, 
                adequate water supply for domestic, agricultural, 
                environmental, municipal, or industrial use;
                    (C) complies with all applicable State and Federal 
                laws;
                    (D) would provide net ecosystem benefits in excess 
                of required environmental mitigation measures or 
                compliance obligations pursuant to State and Federal 
                law, as described in paragraph (6);
                    (E) uses natural infrastructure and nature-based 
                solutions where practicable;
                    (F) is economically feasible; and
                    (G) is otherwise eligible for assistance under this 
                section.
            (2) Water supply projects.--A water supply project referred 
        to in paragraph (1) is--
                    (A) a project for the reclamation and reuse of 
                municipal, industrial, domestic, and agricultural 
                wastewater, and naturally impaired ground water, which 
                the Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of 
                Reclamation, is authorized to undertake;
                    (B) any water infrastructure project not 
                specifically authorized by law that--
                            (i) the Secretary determines, through the 
                        completion of an appraisal investigation and 
                        feasibility study, would contribute to a safe, 
                        adequate water supply for domestic, 
                        agricultural, environmental, municipal, or 
                        industrial use; and
                            (ii) is otherwise eligible for assistance 
                        under this section;
                    (C) a new water infrastructure facility project, 
                including a water conduit, pipeline, canal, pumping, 
                power, and any associated facility;
                    (D) a project for enhanced energy efficiency in the 
                operation of a water system;
                    (E) a project for accelerated repair and 
                replacement of all or a portion of an aging water 
                distribution or conveyance facility;
                    (F) a brackish desalination project;
                    (G) a project for the acquisition of real property 
                or an interest in real property for water storage, 
                reclaimed or recycled water, or wastewater, if the 
                acquisition is integral to a project described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (F);
                    (H) a project to deliver water to wildlife refuges;
                    (I) a stormwater capture project; or
                    (J) a combination of projects, each of which is 
                eligible under subparagraphs (A) through (I), for which 
                an eligible entity submits a single application.
            (3) Eligible project costs.--An eligible project cost that 
        is eligible for assistance under this section--
                    (A) shall be limited to a nonreimbursable cost for 
                elements of a project that would achieve public 
                benefits under the reclamation laws; and
                    (B) includes the cost of--
                            (i) development-phase activities, including 
                        planning, feasibility analysis, revenue 
                        forecasting, environmental review, permitting, 
                        transaction costs, preliminary engineering and 
                        design work, and other preconstruction 
                        activities;
                            (ii) construction, reconstruction, 
                        rehabilitation, and replacement activities;
                            (iii) the acquisition of real property 
                        (including water rights, land relating to the 
                        eligible project, and improvements to land), 
                        environmental mitigation, construction 
                        contingencies, and acquisition of equipment;
                            (iv) capitalized interest necessary to meet 
                        market requirements, reasonably required 
                        reserve funds, capital issuance expenses, and 
                        other carrying costs during construction;
                            (v) refinancing interim construction 
                        funding, long-term project obligations, or a 
                        secured loan, loan guarantee, or other credit 
                        enhancement made under this section;
                            (vi) refinancing long-term project 
                        obligations or Federal credit instruments, if 
                        that refinancing provides additional funding 
                        capacity for the completion, enhancement, or 
                        expansion of any eligible project selected for 
                        assistance under this section;
                            (vii) reimbursement or success payments to 
                        any public or private entity that achieves 
                        predetermined outcomes on a pay-for-performance 
                        or pay-for-success basis; and
                            (viii) grants, loans, or credit enhancement 
                        for community development financial 
                        institutions, green banks, and other financial 
                        intermediaries providing ongoing finance for 
                        eligible projects that meet the purposes of 
                        this section.
            (4) Small community projects.--For projects eligible for 
        assistance under this section and section 5028(a)(2)(B) of the 
        Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 
        3907(a)(2)(B)), the Secretary may assist applicants in 
        combining 1 or more projects into a single application in order 
        to meet the minimum project cost of $5,000,000 required under 
        that section.
            (5) Cost-sharing requirement; certain uses.--
                    (A) Cost sharing.--The Federal share of the 
                eligible costs of a water supply project under this 
                section shall be not more than 25 percent.
                    (B) Certain uses.--A water supply project that 
                receives assistance under this section may use not more 
                than 5 percent of amounts made available under this 
                section to carry out activities to demonstrate progress 
                toward the goals of the water supply project.
            (6) Determination of net ecosystem benefits.--
                    (A) Draft report.--
                            (i) In general.--Using the best available 
                        scientific information and data, the Director 
                        of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
                        shall prepare a draft report that evaluates the 
                        ecosystem impacts and benefits of each proposed 
                        water supply project being considered for 
                        financial assistance under this section.
                            (ii) Coordination.--A draft report required 
                        under clause (i) shall be prepared in 
                        coordination with the head of the State agency 
                        with jurisdiction over the fish and wildlife 
                        resources of the State in which the water 
                        supply project is proposed to be carried out.
                            (iii) Applicable law; requirements.--A 
                        draft report prepared under clause (i) shall--
                                    (I) meet the requirements of 
                                section 2(b) of the Fish and Wildlife 
                                Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 662(b));
                                    (II) quantify and estimate the 
                                ecosystem benefits and adverse impacts 
                                to native fish and wildlife from the 
                                proposed water supply project; and
                                    (III) evaluate whether the 
                                ecosystem benefits of the proposed 
                                water supply project are likely to 
                                exceed the ecosystem impacts of the 
                                proposed water supply project.
                            (iv) Review; availability.--The Director of 
                        the United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
                        shall ensure that a draft report prepared under 
                        clause (i) is--
                                    (I) reviewed by independent 
                                scientists; and
                                    (II) made available for a public 
                                review and comment period of not less 
                                than 30 days.
                    (B) Final report.--
                            (i) In general.--The Director of the United 
                        States Fish and Wildlife Service shall prepare 
                        a final report based on the applicable draft 
                        report prepared under subparagraph (A)(i), 
                        after considering the results of the 
                        independent scientific peer review and public 
                        comment processes under subparagraph (A)(iv).
                            (ii) Transmission; availability.--A final 
                        report prepared under clause (i) shall be--
                                    (I) transmitted to--
                                            (aa) the project applicant;
                                            (bb) the relevant State 
                                        agency; and
                                            (cc) relevant congressional 
                                        committees; and
                                    (II) made available to the public.
                            (iii) Determination.--If a final report 
                        prepared under clause (i) determines that the 
                        water supply project provides net ecosystem 
                        benefits, the proposed water supply project 
                        shall be eligible for financial assistance 
                        under this section.
                            (iv) Recommendations.--If a final report 
                        determines that the proposed water supply 
                        project fails to provide a net ecosystem 
                        improvement, the final report may identify 
                        potential recommendations to reduce adverse 
                        environmental impacts and improve environmental 
                        benefits of the proposed water supply project.
                            (v) Final agency action.--A final report 
                        prepared under clause (i) shall be considered 
                        to be a final agency action for purposes of 
                        section 704 of title 5, United States Code.
                            (vi) Judicial review.--A final report 
                        prepared under clause (i) shall be subject to 
                        review in the Federal district court of the 
                        State in which the project is proposed to be 
                        constructed if a petition for review is filed 
                        with the court not later than 180 days after 
                        the date on which the final report is 
                        transmitted under clause (ii).
    (c) Eligible Entities.--The following entities are eligible to 
receive assistance under this section:
            (1) An entity described in section 5025 of the Water 
        Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 3904).
            (2) A conservancy district, Reclamation district, or 
        irrigation district.
            (3) A canal company or mutual water company.
            (4) A water users' association.
            (5) An agency established by an interstate compact.
            (6) Any other individual or entity that has the capacity to 
        contract with the United States under the reclamation laws.
    (d) Requirements.--
            (1) Project selection.--In selecting eligible projects to 
        receive assistance under the pilot program under this section, 
        the Secretary shall ensure diversity with respect to--
                    (A) project type; and
                    (B) geographical location within the States 
                referred to in subsection (b)(1)(A).
            (2) Priority.--In selecting eligible projects to receive 
        assistance under this section, the Secretary shall prioritize 
        projects that--
                    (A) would benefit--
                            (i) low-income communities; or
                            (ii)(I) communities particularly at-risk to 
                        climate change; and
                            (II) environmentally at-risk communities;
                    (B) to the maximum extent practicable, incorporate 
                green and natural infrastructure components; and
                    (C) achieve multiple public benefits.
            (3) Importation of other requirements.--The following 
        provisions of law shall apply to the pilot program under this 
        section:
                    (A) Sections 5022, 5024, 5027, 5028, 5029, 5030, 
                5031, 5032, and 5034(a) of the Water Resources Reform 
                and Development Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 3901, 3903, 
                3906, 3907, 3908, 3909, 3910, 3911, and 3913(a)), 
                except that--
                            (i) any reference contained in those 
                        sections to the Secretary of the Army shall be 
                        considered to be a reference to the Secretary;
                            (ii) any reference contained in those 
                        sections to an eligible project shall be 
                        considered to be a reference to an eligible 
                        project described in subsection (b);
                            (iii) paragraphs (1)(E) and (6)(B) of 
                        subsection (a), and subsection (b)(3), of 
                        section 5028 of that Act (33 U.S.C. 3907) shall 
                        not apply with respect to this section; and
                            (iv) subsections (e) and (f) of section 
                        5030 of that Act (33 U.S.C. 3909) shall not 
                        apply with respect to this section.
                    (B) The agreement between the Administrator of the 
                Environmental Protection Agency and the Commissioner of 
                Reclamation required under section 4301 of the 
                America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (Public Law 
                115-270).
                    (C) Other applicable environmental laws, including 
                the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
                U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Secretary to carry out the pilot program under this section 
        $150,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024, to 
        remain available until expended.
            (2) Administrative costs.--Of the funds made available 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary may use for administrative 
        costs of carrying out the pilot program under this section 
        (including for the provision of technical assistance to project 
        sponsors pursuant to paragraph (3), to obtain any necessary 
        approval, and for transfer to the Administrator of the 
        Environmental Protection Agency to provide assistance in 
        administering and servicing Federal credit instruments under 
        the pilot program) not more than $5,000,000 for each applicable 
        fiscal year.
            (3) Small community projects.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Commissioner may use the funds made available under 
                paragraph (2) to provide assistance, including 
                assistance to pay the costs of acquiring the rating 
                opinion letters under paragraph (1)(D) of section 
                5028(a) of the Water Resources Reform and Development 
                Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 3907(a)), to assist project 
                sponsors in obtaining the necessary approvals for small 
                community projects that are eligible for assistance 
                under paragraph (2)(B) of that section or subsection 
                (b)(3).
                    (B) Limitation.--Assistance provided to a project 
                sponsor under subparagraph (A) may not exceed an amount 
                equal to 75 percent of the total administrative costs 
                incurred by the project sponsor in securing financial 
                assistance under this section.
    (f) Limitation.--No eligible project that receives assistance under 
this section may be financed (directly or indirectly), in whole or in 
part, with proceeds of any obligation the interest on which is exempt 
from the tax imposed under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986.
    (g) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects the authority of a 
State or a political subdivision of a State to apply and enforce any 
environmental laws (including regulations) with respect to an eligible 
project provided assistance under this section.

SEC. 303. WATER RECYCLING AND REUSE PROJECTS.

    (a) Competitive Grant Program for the Funding of Water Recycling 
and Reuse Projects.--Section 1602(f) of the Reclamation Wastewater and 
Groundwater Study and Facilities Act (43 U.S.C. 390h(f)) is amended by 
striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Priority.--In providing grants under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall give priority to projects that--
                    ``(A) are likely to provide a more reliable water 
                supply for a unit of State, local, or Tribal 
                government;
                    ``(B) are likely to increase the water management 
                flexibility and reduce impacts on environmental 
                resources;
                    ``(C) are regional in nature;
                    ``(D) involve multiple stakeholders;
                    ``(E) provide multiple benefits, including water 
                supply reliability, ecosystem benefits, groundwater 
                management and enhancements, and water quality 
                improvements;
                    ``(F) would benefit low-income communities; or
                    ``(G) would protect communities particularly at-
                risk to climate change and environmental 
                degradation.''.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 1602(g) of the 
Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act (43 
U.S.C. 390h(g)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``$50,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$500,000,000''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``if enacted 
        appropriations legislation designates funding to them by 
        name,''.
    (c) Limitation on Funding.--Section 1631(d)(1) of the Reclamation 
Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act (43 U.S.C. 390h-
13(d)(1)) is amended by striking ``$20,000,000 (October 1996 prices)'' 
and inserting ``$30,000,000 (January 2019 prices)''.
    (d) Duration.--Section 4013 of the Water Infrastructure 
Improvements for the Nation Act (43 U.S.C. 390b note; Public Law 114-
322) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) the amendment made by section 4009(c).''.
    (e) Programs for Alternative Water Source Projects.--Section 220 of 
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1300) is amended to 
read as follows:

``SEC. 220. PROGRAM FOR ALTERNATIVE WATER SOURCE PROJECTS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Alternative water source project.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `alternative water 
                source project' means a project that--
                            ``(i) is designed to provide municipal, 
                        industrial, or agricultural water supplies in 
                        an environmentally sustainable manner by 
                        conserving, managing, reclaiming, or reusing 
                        water, wastewater, or stormwater, or by 
                        treating wastewater or stormwater; and
                            ``(ii) provides an alternative to 
                        traditional water projects that divert or store 
                        water from natural aquatic ecosystems, 
                        including rivers, lakes, streams, and 
                        estuaries.
                    ``(B) Exclusion.--The term `alternative water 
                source project' does not include any water treatment or 
                distribution facility.
            ``(2) Critical water supply needs.--The term `critical 
        water supply needs' means existing or reasonably anticipated 
        future water supply needs that cannot be met by existing water 
        supplies, as identified in a comprehensive statewide or 
        regional water supply plan or assessment projected over a 
        period of not less than 20 years.
    ``(b) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a program 
to make grants to State, interstate, and intrastate water resource 
development agencies (including water management districts and water 
supply authorities), local government agencies, Tribal governments, 
private utilities, and nonprofit entities for alternative water source 
projects to meet critical water supply needs.
    ``(c) Eligible Entity.--The Administrator may award a grant under 
this section to an entity only if the entity has authority under State 
law to develop or provide water for municipal, industrial, and 
agricultural uses in an area of the State that is experiencing critical 
water supply needs.
    ``(d) Selection of Projects.--
            ``(1) Limitation.--A project that has received funds for 
        construction under the Reclamation Projects Authorization and 
        Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 390h et seq.) shall not be 
        eligible for a grant under this section.
            ``(2) Geographical distribution.--Alternative water source 
        projects selected by the Administrator for a grant under this 
        section shall reflect a variety of geographical and 
        environmental conditions.
    ``(e) Uses of Grant Funds.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), a grant 
        received under this section may be used for engineering, 
        design, construction, and final testing of an alternative water 
        source project designed to meet critical water supply needs.
            ``(2) Exclusion.--A grant received under this section may 
        not be used for planning, a feasibility study, operation, 
        maintenance, replacement, repair, or rehabilitation.
    ``(f) Cost Sharing.--The Federal share of the eligible costs of an 
alternative water source project carried out using a grant under this 
section shall be not more than 50 percent.
    ``(g) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2023, the Administrator 
shall submit to Congress a report describing the results of the grant 
program established under subsection (b), including progress toward 
meeting the critical water supply needs of the grant recipients.
    ``(h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $500,000,000 for fiscal year 
2020 and each fiscal year thereafter, to remain available until 
expended.
    ``(i) Policy.--Nothing in this section affects the application of 
section 101(g) and all of the provisions of this section shall be 
carried out in accordance with that section.''.

SEC. 304. MANDATORY SPENDING FOR WATER INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMS.

    (a) Clean Water Programs.--
            (1) In general.--At the beginning of each fiscal year, the 
        Administrator shall obligate for the fiscal year--
                    (A) $174,250,000 to make grants to nonprofit 
                organizations to provide technical assistance and 
                disseminate information under section 104(b)(8) of the 
                Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
                1254(b)(8));
                    (B) $522,750,000 to make grants for pollution 
                control programs under section 106 of the Federal Water 
                Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1256);
                    (C) $871,250,000 to make grants for the 
                implementation of management programs under section 
                319(h)(1) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
                (33 U.S.C. 1329(h)(1)); and
                    (D) $1,000,000 to assist in the planning, 
                development, strengthening, improving, or carrying out 
                of programs or projects for the preparation of 
                undergraduate students to enter an occupation which 
                involves the design, operation, and maintenance of 
                treatment works and other facilities under section 109 
                of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
                1259).
            (2) Priorities.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, in using the funds obligated under paragraph (1), the 
        Administrator shall give priority to projects or programs 
        that--
                    (A) benefit low-income communities;
                    (B) benefit communities that are subject to a 
                consent decree in an action brought under the Federal 
                Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
                    (C) reflect a variety of geographic conditions; and
                    (D) benefit communities with a history of degraded 
                environmental conditions.
            (3) Funding.--
                    (A) In general.--On October 1 of each fiscal year, 
                out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise 
                appropriated, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
                transfer to the Administrator to carry out this 
                subsection $1,569,250,000, to remain available until 
                expended.
                    (B) Receipt and acceptance.--The Administrator 
                shall be entitled to receive, shall accept, and shall 
                use to carry out this section the funds transferred 
                under subparagraph (A), without further appropriation.
    (b) Safe Drinking Water Programs.--
            (1) In general.--At the beginning of each fiscal year, the 
        Administrator shall obligate for the fiscal year--
                    (A) $174,250,000 to provide technical assistance to 
                small public water systems to enable those systems to 
                achieve and maintain compliance with applicable 
                national primary drinking water regulations under 
                section 1442(e) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 
                U.S.C. 300j-1(e)); and
                    (B) $1,045,500,000 to make grants under the 
                voluntary school and child care program lead testing 
                grant program under section 1464(d) of the Safe 
                Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-24(d)).
            (2) Priorities.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, in using the funds obligated under paragraph (1), the 
        Administrator shall give priority to projects or programs 
        that--
                    (A) benefit low-income communities;
                    (B) benefit communities that are subject to a 
                consent decree in an action brought under the Safe 
                Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.);
                    (C) reflect a variety of geographic conditions; and
                    (D) benefit communities with a history of degraded 
                environmental conditions.
            (3) Funding.--
                    (A) In general.--On October 1 of each fiscal year, 
                out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise 
                appropriated, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
                transfer to the Administrator to carry out this 
                subsection $1,219,750,000, to remain available until 
                expended.
                    (B) Receipt and acceptance.--The Administrator 
                shall be entitled to receive, shall accept, and shall 
                use to carry out this section the funds transferred 
                under subparagraph (A), without further appropriation.
    (c) State Revolving Funds.--
            (1) In general.--At the beginning of each fiscal year, the 
        Administrator shall obligate for the fiscal year--
                    (A) $15,682,500,000 for making capitalization 
                grants for State water pollution control revolving 
                funds established under title VI of the Federal Water 
                Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1381 et seq.); and
                    (B) $15,159,750,000 for making capitalization 
                grants for State drinking water treatment revolving 
                loan funds established under section 1452 of the Safe 
                Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12).
            (2) Funding.--
                    (A) In general.--On October 1 of each fiscal year, 
                out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise 
                appropriated, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
                transfer to the Administrator to carry out this 
                subsection $30,842,250,000, to remain available until 
                expended.
                    (B) Receipt and acceptance.--The Administrator 
                shall be entitled to receive, shall accept, and shall 
                use to carry out this section the funds transferred 
                under subparagraph (A), without further appropriation.
            (3) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
        States should use the funding provided under this subsection to 
        give priority to projects that--
                    (A) benefit low-income communities;
                    (B) benefit communities that are subject to a 
                consent decree in an action brought under the Safe 
                Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.);
                    (C) reflect a variety of geographic conditions; and
                    (D) benefit communities with a history of degraded 
                environmental conditions.
    (d) Minimum Allocation of Additional Subsidization of Drinking 
Water State Revolving Funds.--Section 603(i)(3) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1383(i)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as 
        subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
                    ``(C) Minimum allocation of additional 
                subsidization.--To the extent that there are sufficient 
                applications for the assistance described in paragraph 
                (1)(A), in each fiscal year, a State shall use not less 
                than 6 percent of the total amount received by the 
                State in capitalization grants under this title to 
                provide additional subsidization under this 
                subsection.''.

SEC. 305. EXPANDING AND INCREASING FUNDING FOR RURAL INDIVIDUAL AND 
              CONNECTED WATER SYSTEMS PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--At the beginning of each fiscal year, the 
Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this section as the 
``Secretary'') shall obligate for the fiscal year--
            (1) $871,250,000 in additional funding--
                    (A) to make grants for individual household water 
                well systems and individually owned household 
                decentralized wastewater systems, including drainage 
                fields, under section 306E of the Consolidated Farm and 
                Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926e); and
                    (B) for water or waste disposal grants under 
                section 306(a)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
                Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(2)); and
            (2) $100,000,000 in additional funding to make grants under 
        the Special Evaluation Assistance for Rural Communities and 
        Households program under section 306(a)(2)(C) of the 
        Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
        1926(a)(2)(C)).
    (b) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--On October 1 of each fiscal year, out of 
        any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the 
        Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer to the Secretary to 
        carry out this section $971,250,000, to remain available until 
        expended.
            (2) Receipt and acceptance.--The Secretary shall be 
        entitled to receive, shall accept, and shall use to carry out 
        this section the funds transferred under paragraph (1), without 
        further appropriation.
    (c) Rural Decentralized Water Systems.--Section 306E(b)(1) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926e(b)(1)) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``replacement, repairing,'' after 
        ``construction,''; and
            (2) by inserting ``, including drainage fields,'' after 
        ``wastewater systems''.

SEC. 306. INCREASED FUNDING FOR WATER MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT.

    Section 9504(e) of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 
(42 U.S.C. 10364(e)) is amended by striking ``$480,000,000'' and 
inserting ``$550,000,000''.

SEC. 307. WATER EFFICIENCY AND CONSERVATION BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a State;
                    (B) a unit of local government;
                    (C) an entity established by an interstate compact; 
                and
                    (D) an Indian tribe.
            (2) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
            (3) Program.--The term ``program'' means the program 
        established under subsection (b).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means--
                    (A) a State;
                    (B) the District of Columbia;
                    (C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and
                    (D) any other territory or possession of the United 
                States.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a program, to be 
known as the ``Water Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program'', 
under which the Secretary shall provide grants to eligible entities to 
carry out activities to achieve the purpose of the program described in 
subsection (c).
    (c) Purpose.--The purpose of the program is to assist eligible 
entities in implementing strategies--
            (1) to reduce water use in a manner that--
                    (A) is environmentally sustainable;
                    (B) improves the affordability of water and 
                sanitation for disadvantaged communities; and
                    (C) maximizes benefits for local and regional 
                communities;
            (2) to reduce the total water use of the people, 
        businesses, farms, and institutions located within the 
        jurisdiction of eligible entities receiving grants under the 
        program;
            (3) to improve water efficiency in the agricultural sector, 
        building sector, or any other appropriate sector operating 
        within the jurisdictions of the eligible entities receiving 
        grants under the program; and
            (4) to reduce the energy required to pump, transport, 
        treat, and heat water.
    (d) Activities.--An eligible entity may use a grant under the 
program to carry out activities that include--
            (1) developing and implementing a water efficiency and 
        conservation strategy;
            (2) retaining technical consultant services to assist in 
        the development of the strategy described in paragraph (1), 
        including services to assist with--
                    (A) the formulation of water efficiency, water 
                conservation, and water usage goals;
                    (B) the engagement of water users and other 
                stakeholders in the identification of goals and 
                priorities for water efficiency and conservation;
                    (C) the identification of strategies to achieve the 
                goals formulated under subparagraphs (A) and (B)--
                            (i) through investments in physical 
                        measures to increase water efficiency and 
                        reduce water consumption;
                            (ii) by encouraging water conservation 
                        practices by--
                                    (I) the population served by the 
                                eligible entity; and
                                    (II) the suppliers of water and 
                                sanitation services operating within 
                                the jurisdiction of the eligible 
                                entity; and
                            (iii) by collecting any revenues that may 
                        be required to support the implementation of 
                        those strategies through fair and transparent 
                        mechanisms that encourage efficient water use 
                        and support the affordability of water and 
                        sanitation services for low-income households;
                    (D) the development of methods to measure progress 
                in achieving the goals formulated under subparagraphs 
                (A) and (B);
                    (E) the development and publication of annual 
                reports, made available to the population served by the 
                eligible entity, describing--
                            (i) the goals formulated under 
                        subparagraphs (A) and (B) and the strategies 
                        identified under subparagraph (C); and
                            (ii) the progress made in achieving those 
                        goals and strategies during the preceding 
                        calendar year; and
                    (F) any other activities appropriate to implement 
                the strategy described in paragraph (1);
            (3) conducting residential and commercial building water 
        audits;
            (4) conducting water loss audits of public water 
        distribution systems, securing validation of the audit reports, 
        and conducting component analyses of any leaks and losses 
        described in an audit report;
            (5) establishing a financial incentive program for water 
        efficiency improvements;
            (6) providing grants to nonprofit organizations, 
        governmental agencies, and Tribal governments for the purpose 
        of performing water efficiency upgrades that result in 
        quantifiable savings;
            (7) developing and implementing water efficiency and 
        conservation programs for buildings and facilities within the 
        jurisdiction of the eligible entity, including programs that--
                    (A) identify the most effective methods for 
                achieving maximum participation rates and 
                administrative efficiency;
                    (B) effectively engage the owners and tenants of 
                affordable housing;
                    (C) have a public education component;
                    (D) use measurement and verification protocols; and
                    (E) identify water efficient technologies;
            (8) developing and implementing building codes and 
        inspection services to promote building water efficiency;
            (9) adopting ordinances for the annual benchmarking of the 
        water use of large buildings and the public posting of water 
        benchmark reports;
            (10) implementing water distribution technologies that 
        significantly increase water efficiency, including--
                    (A) customer service meters with enhanced accuracy 
                at low flow levels;
                    (B) automated meter infrastructure for data 
                collection, analysis, and display;
                    (C) pressure monitoring and management to mitigate 
                excessive pressure;
                    (D) agricultural water distribution improvements, 
                including--
                            (i) water measurement devices of sufficient 
                        accuracy to use for billing purposes;
                            (ii) enclosure and pressurization of 
                        agricultural water delivery systems; and
                            (iii) addition of regulatory storage and 
                        automated controls within distribution systems 
                        to enable fulfillment of irrigation delivery 
                        requests in not more than 24 hours; and
                    (E) other activities that may have water 
                conservation and efficiency benefits; and
            (11) any other appropriate activities, as determined by the 
        Secretary, in consultation with--
                    (A) the Administrator of the Environmental 
                Protection Agency;
                    (B) the Secretary of Transportation;
                    (C) the Secretary of Agriculture; and
                    (D) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $2,000,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.

SEC. 308. RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriation.--Section 109(a) of the Rural 
Water Supply Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C. 2408(a)) is amended by striking 
``2016'' and inserting ``2026''.
    (b) Termination of Authority.--Section 110 of the Rural Water 
Supply Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C. 2409) is amended by striking ``2016'' and 
inserting ``2026''.

SEC. 309. COMBATING PFAS.

    Section 1412 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300g-1) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Perfluoroalkyl and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this Act and subject to paragraph (3), the Administrator shall 
        promulgate under subsection (b)(1)(D) an interim national 
        primary drinking water regulation--
                    ``(A) for each perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
                substance described in paragraph (2) for which the 
                Administrator has established a health advisory under 
                subsection (b)(1)(F) or a toxicity value, not later 
                than 2 years after the date of enactment of this 
                subsection; and
                    ``(B) for the class of perfluoroalkyl and 
                polyfluoroalkyl substances described in paragraph (2) 
                for which the Administrator has not established a 
                health advisory under subsection (b)(1)(F) or a 
                toxicity value, not later than 4 years after the date 
                of enactment of this subsection.
            ``(2) Perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substance 
        described.--A perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substance 
        referred to in paragraph (1) is a perfluoroalkyl or 
        polyfluoroalkyl substance for which the Administrator has 
        validated a method to measure the level of that substance in 
        drinking water.
            ``(3) Requirement.--An interim national primary drinking 
        water regulation promulgated pursuant to paragraph (1) shall 
        be--
                    ``(A) protective of the health of vulnerable 
                populations, including pregnant women, infants, and 
                children; and
                    ``(B) shall be as stringent as feasible (as defined 
                in subsection (b)(4)(D)).''.

SEC. 310. MULTI-BENEFIT PROJECTS TO IMPROVE WATERSHED HEALTH.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the 
heads of relevant agencies, shall establish a competitive grant program 
for habitat restoration projects that accomplish 1 or more of the 
following:
            (1) Improve watershed health.
            (2) Mitigate against the impacts of climate change.
            (3) Benefit ecosystems.
            (4) Protect against endemic species.
            (5) Restore aspects of the natural ecosystem.
            (6) Enhance commercial and recreational fishing.
    (b) Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--In awarding a grant under subsection (a), 
        the Secretary--
                    (A) shall give priority to a project that achieves 
                more than 1 of the benefits described in that 
                subsection; and
                    (B) may not provide a grant for a project that is 
                for the purpose of meeting existing environmental 
                mitigation or compliance obligations.
            (2) Compliance.--A project awarded a grant under subsection 
        (a) shall comply with all applicable Federal and State laws.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $150,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2020 through 2024.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
