<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 7132 Introduced in House (IH)]







110th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7132

To establish the Gold Butte National Conservation Area in Clark County, 
Nevada, to conserve, protect, and enhance the cultural, archaeological, 
 natural, wilderness, scientific, geological, historical, biological, 
 wildlife, educational, and scenic resources of the area, to designate 
        wilderness areas in the county, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 26, 2008

 Ms. Berkley introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish the Gold Butte National Conservation Area in Clark County, 
Nevada, to conserve, protect, and enhance the cultural, archaeological, 
 natural, wilderness, scientific, geological, historical, biological, 
 wildlife, educational, and scenic resources of the area, to designate 
        wilderness areas in the county, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Gold Butte 
National Conservation Area and Wilderness Designation Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
             TITLE I--GOLD BUTTE NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

Sec. 101. Establishment of Gold Butte National Conservation Area.
Sec. 102. Management of conservation area.
Sec. 103. General provisions.
Sec. 104. Gold Butte National Conservation Area Advisory Council.
   TITLE II--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS IN CLARK COUNTY, NEVADA

Sec. 201. Findings.
Sec. 202. Additions to National Wilderness Preservation System.
Sec. 203. Administration.
Sec. 204. Adjacent management.
Sec. 205. Native American cultural and religious uses.
Sec. 206. Wildlife management.
Sec. 207. Wildfire management.
Sec. 208. Climatological data collection.
Sec. 209. National Park System lands.
                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 301. Relationship to Clark County Multi-Species Habitat 
                            Conservation Plan.

             TITLE I--GOLD BUTTE NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

SEC. 101. ESTABLISHMENT OF GOLD BUTTE NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Gold Butte National 
Conservation Area in the State of Nevada (in this title referred to as 
the ``conservation area'').
    (b) Area Included.--The conservation area shall consist of 
approximately 362,177 acres of public land administered by the Bureau 
of Land Management in Clark County, Nevada, as generally depicted on 
the map entitled ``Gold Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated 
September 26, 2008.
    (c) National Landscape Conservation System.--The conservation area 
shall be administered as a component of the National Landscape 
Conservation System.
    (d) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall file 
        a map and legal description of the conservation area with the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate..
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        minor errors in the map or legal description.
            (3) Public availability.--A copy of the map and legal 
        description shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate office of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.

SEC. 102. MANAGEMENT OF CONSERVATION AREA.

    (a) General Management Purposes.--In accordance with this title, 
the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et 
seq.), and other applicable laws, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
manage the conservation area in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
enhances the resources of the conservation area.
    (b) Management Plan.--
            (1) Plan required.--Not later than three years after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
        Interior shall develop a management plan for the long-term 
        protection and management of the conservation area.
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall prepare the 
        management plan in consultation with the State of Nevada, local 
        and tribal government entities, and the public.
            (3) Requirements.--The management plan shall describe the 
        appropriate uses and management of the conservation area and 
        include a recommendation on interpretive and educational 
        materials regarding the cultural and biological resources of 
        the region within which the conservation area is located.
    (c) Uses.--The Secretary of the Interior shall allow only such uses 
of the conservation area that the Secretary determines will further the 
purpose of the conservation area described in subsection (a).
    (d) Incorporation of Acquired Lands and Interests.--Any land or 
interests in land located within the boundary of the conservation area 
that is acquired by the United States after the date of the enactment 
of this Act shall become part of the conservation area and be managed 
as provided in subsection (a).
    (e) Motorized Vehicles.--
            (1) Use pending management plan.--Before the effective date 
        of the management plan required by subsection (b), the use of 
        motorized vehicles in the conservation area shall be consistent 
        with the Route Designations for Selected Areas of Critical 
        Environmental Concern Located in the Northeast Portion of the 
        Las Vegas BLM District Environmental Assessment, NV-052-2006-
        433.
            (2) Use under management plan.--
                    (A) Authorized uses.--On and after the effective 
                date of the management plan under subsection (b), the 
                use of motorized vehicles in the conservation area 
                shall be allowed only--
                            (i) on roads and trails designated for use 
                        of motor vehicles in the management plan; and
                            (ii) for installing, repairing, 
                        maintaining, and reconstructing water 
                        development projects, including guzzlers, that 
                        would enhance the conservation area by 
                        promoting healthy, viable, and more naturally 
                        distributed wildlife populations, subject to 
                        limitations specified in the management plan 
                        that are not more restrictive than the 
                        limitations on such uses authorized in 
                        wilderness areas designated under title II.
                    (B) Minimizing visual impacts.--The management plan 
                shall include or provide recommendations on ways of 
                minimizing the visual impacts of activities authorized 
                pursuant to subparagraph (A)(ii) on the conservation 
                area.
            (3) Exceptions.--Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), 
        the Secretary may authorize the use of motorized vehicles in 
        the conservation area for administrative purposes or to respond 
        to an emergency.
    (f) Roads.--New roads shall not be built within the conservation 
area unless the roads are needed for public safety or natural resource 
protection.
    (g) Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping.--
            (1) State jurisdiction.--Nothing in this title affects the 
        jurisdiction of the State of Nevada with respect to fish and 
        wildlife, including hunting, fishing, and trapping in the 
        conservation area.
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A) Regulations.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
                designate, by regulation, areas in which, and establish 
                periods during which, for reasons of public safety, 
                administration, or compliance with applicable laws, no 
                hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the 
                conservation area.
                    (B) Consultation.--Except in emergencies, the 
                Secretary shall consult with the appropriate State 
                agency before promulgating regulations under 
                subparagraph (A) that close a portion of the 
                conservation area to hunting, fishing, or trapping.

SEC. 103. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) No Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--The establishment of the conservation area 
        shall not create an express or implied protective perimeter or 
        buffer zone around the conservation area.
            (2) Private land.--If the use of, or conduct of an activity 
        on, private land that shares a boundary with the conservation 
        area is consistent with applicable law, nothing in this title 
        concerning the establishment of the conservation area prohibits 
        or limits the use or conduct of the activity.
    (b) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, all public land 
within the conservation area, including any land or interest in land 
that is acquired by the United States within the conservation area 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, are withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (c) Special Management Areas.--
            (1) In general.--The establishment of the conservation area 
        shall not change the management status of any area within the 
        boundary of the conservation area that is protected under the 
        Clark County Multi-Species Habitat Conservation Plan.
            (2) Effect of conflict.--If there is a conflict between the 
        laws applicable to the areas described in paragraph (1) and 
        this title, the more restrictive provision shall control.

SEC. 104. GOLD BUTTE NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA ADVISORY COUNCIL.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall establish an 
advisory council, to be known as the ``Gold Butte National Conservation 
Area Advisory Council''.
    (b) Duties.--The Council shall advise the Secretary with respect to 
the preparation and implementation of the management plan for the long-
term protection and management of the conservation area required by 
section 102(b).
    (c) Applicable Law.--The Council shall be subject to--
            (1) the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.); and
            (2) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
    (d) Members.--
            (1) In general.--The Council shall include 10 members to be 
        appointed by the Secretary, of whom, to the extent 
        practicable--
                    (A) one member shall be appointed after considering 
                the recommendations of the Mesquite, Nevada, City 
                Council;
                    (B) one member shall be appointed after considering 
                the recommendations of the Bunkerville, Nevada, Town 
                Advisory Board;
                    (C) one member shall be appointed after considering 
                the recommendations of the Moapa, Nevada, Town Advisory 
                Board;
                    (D) one member shall be appointed after considering 
                the recommendations of the Logandale, Nevada, Town 
                Advisory Board;
                    (E) one member shall be appointed after considering 
                the recommendations of the Overton, Nevada, Town 
                Advisory Board;
                    (F) one member shall be appointed after considering 
                the recommendations of the Moapa Band of Paiutes Tribal 
                Council; and
                    (G) four at-large  members from  Clark County, 
                Nevada, shall be appointed after considering the 
                recommendations of the County Commission for Clark 
                County.
            (2) Special appointment considerations.--The at-large 
        members appointed under paragraph (1)(G) must have backgrounds 
        that reflect--
                    (A) the purposes for which the conservation area 
                was established; and
                    (B) the interests of persons affected by the 
                planning and management of the conservation area.
            (3) Representation.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
        membership of the Council is fairly balanced in terms of the 
        points of view represented and the functions to be performed by 
        the Council.
    (e) Termination.--The Council shall terminate not later than one 
year after the date on which the management plan for the conservation 
area is adopted by the Secretary of the Interior.

   TITLE II--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS IN CLARK COUNTY, NEVADA

SEC. 201. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that certain public land administered by the Bureau 
of Land Management in Clark County, Nevada, contains unique and 
spectacular natural, cultural, and archeological resources, including--
            (1) priceless habitat for numerous species of plants and 
        wildlife;
            (2) thousands of acres of pristine land that remain in a 
        natural state; and
            (3) numerous sites containing significant archeological 
        artifacts.

SEC. 202. ADDITIONS TO NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Designation of Wilderness.--In furtherance of the purposes of 
the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the following public lands 
administered by the National Park Service or the Bureau of Land 
Management in Clark County, Nevada, are designated as wilderness and as 
either a new component of the National Wilderness Preservation System 
or, in the case of the designation made by paragraph (13), an addition 
to an existing component of the National Wilderness Preservation 
System:
            (1) Virgin peak wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        21,681 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Gold 
        Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated September 26, 
        2008, which shall be known as the ``Virgin Peak Wilderness''.
            (2) Black ridge wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        17,303 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Gold 
        Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated September 26, 
        2008, which shall be known as the ``Black Ridge Wilderness''.
            (3) Bitter ridge north wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 15,016 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Gold Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated 
        September 26, 2008, which shall be known as the ``Bitter Ridge 
        North Wilderness''.
            (4) Bitter ridge south wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 10,202 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Gold Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated 
        September 26, 2008, which shall be known as the ``Bitter Ridge 
        Wilderness''.
            (5) Billy goat peak wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 29,949 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Gold Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated 
        September 26, 2008, which shall be known as the ``Billy Goat 
        Peak Wilderness''.
            (6) Million hills wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        24,840 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Gold 
        Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated September 26, 
        2008, which shall be known as the ``Million Hills Wilderness''.
            (7) Overton wilderness.--Certain Federal land within the 
        Lake Mead National Recreation Area, comprising approximately 
        23,227 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Gold 
        Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated September 26, 
        2008, which shall be known as the ``Overton Wilderness''.
            (8) Twin springs wilderness.--Certain Federal land within 
        the Lake Mead National Recreation Area, comprising 
        approximately 9,684 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Gold Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated 
        September 26, 2008, which shall be known as the ``Twin Springs 
        Wilderness''.
            (9) Scanlon wash wilderness.--Certain Federal land within 
        the Lake Mead National Recreation Area, comprising 
        approximately 22,826 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Gold Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated 
        September 26, 2008, and which shall be known as the ``Scanlon 
        Wash Wilderness''.
            (10) Hiller mountains wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        within the Lake Mead National Recreation Area, comprising 
        approximately 14,832 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Gold Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated 
        September 26, 2008, which shall be known as the ``Hiller 
        Mountains Wilderness''.
            (11) Hell's kitchen wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        within the Lake Mead National Recreation Area, comprising 
        approximately 12,439 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Gold Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated 
        September 26, 2008, which shall be known as the ``Hell's 
        Kitchen Wilderness''.
            (12) Indian hills wilderness.--Certain Federal land within 
        the Lake Mead National Recreation Area, comprising 
        approximately 8,955 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Gold Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated 
        September 26, 2008, which shall be known as the ``Indian Hills 
        Wilderness''.
            (13) Lime canyon wilderness additions.--Certain Federal 
        land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 9,382 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Gold Butte National Conservation Area'' and dated 
        September 26, 2008, is incorporated in, and shall be managed as 
        part of the ``Lime Canyon Wilderness''.
    (b) National Landscape Conservation System.--The wilderness areas 
administered by the Bureau of Land Management and designated or 
expanded by subsection (a) shall be administered as components of the 
National Landscape Conservation System.
    (c) Road Offset.--The boundary of any portion of a wilderness area 
designated by subsection (a) that is bordered by a road shall be at 
least 100 feet away from the edge of the road so as not to interfere 
with public access.
    (d) Lake Offset.--The boundary of any portion of a wilderness area 
designated by subsection (a) that is bordered by Lake Mead or the 
Colorado River shall be 300 feet inland from the high water line.
    (e) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        file a map and legal description of each wilderness area 
        designated or expanded by subsection (a) with the Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
            (2) Effect.--Each map and legal description shall have the 
        same force and effect as if included in this title, except that 
        the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical errors in 
        the map or legal description.
            (3) Availability.--Each map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management and the National Park 
        Service.

SEC. 203. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the land 
designated as wilderness by this title shall be administered by the 
Secretary of the Interior in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in that Act to the effective date of that 
        Act shall be considered to be a reference to the date of the 
        enactment of this Act; and
            (2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        Secretary of the Interior.
    (b) Incorporation of Acquired Lands and Interests.--Any land or 
interest in land within the boundaries of the land designated as 
wilderness by this title that is acquired by the United States after 
the date of the enactment of this Act shall be added to and 
administered as part of the wilderness area within which the acquired 
land or interest is located.
    (c) Water Rights.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
                    (A) The lands designated as wilderness by this 
                title are within the Mojave Desert, are arid in nature, 
                and include ephemeral streams.
                    (B) The hydrology of the lands designated as 
                wilderness by this title is locally characterized by 
                complex flow patterns and alluvial fans with 
                impermanent channels.
                    (C) The subsurface hydrogeology of the region 
                within which the lands designated as wilderness by this 
                title are located is characterized by ground water 
                subject to local and regional flow gradients and 
                artesian aquifers.
                    (D) The lands designated as wilderness by this 
                title are generally not suitable for use or development 
                of new water resource facilities, and there are no 
                actual or proposed water resource facilities and no 
                opportunities for diversion, storage, or other uses of 
                water occurring outside such lands that would adversely 
                affect the wilderness or other values of such lands.
                    (E) Because of the unique nature and hydrology of 
                these desert lands designated as wilderness by this 
                title and the existence of the Clark County Multi-
                Species Habitat Conservation Plan, it is possible to 
                provide for proper management and protection of the 
                wilderness, perennial springs, and other values of such 
                lands in ways different from the methods used in other 
                laws.
            (2) Statutory construction.--
                    (A) No reservation.--Nothing in this title shall 
                constitute or be construed to constitute either an 
                express or implied reservation by the United States of 
                any water or water rights with respect to the lands 
                designated as wilderness by this title.
                    (B) State rights.--Nothing in this title shall 
                affect any water rights in the State of Nevada existing 
                on the date of the enactment of this Act, including any 
                water rights held by the United States.
                    (C) No precedent.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
                be construed as establishing a precedent with regard to 
                any future wilderness designations.
                    (D) No effect on compacts.--Nothing in this title 
                shall be construed as limiting, altering, modifying, or 
                amending any of the interstate compacts or equitable 
                apportionment decrees that apportion water among and 
                between the State of Nevada and other States.
            (3) Nevada water law.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        follow the procedural and substantive requirements of the law 
        of the State of Nevada in order to obtain and hold any water 
        rights not in existence on the date of enactment of this Act 
        with respect to the lands designated as wilderness by this 
        title.
            (4) New projects.--
                    (A) Definition.--In this paragraph, the term 
                ``water resource facility'' means irrigation and 
                pumping facilities, reservoirs, water conservation 
                works, aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, 
                hydropower projects, and transmission and other 
                ancillary facilities, and other water diversion, 
                storage, and carriage structures. The term does not 
                include wildlife guzzlers.
                    (B) No licenses or permits.--Except as otherwise 
                provided in this title, on and after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act, neither the President nor any 
                other officer, employee, or agent of the United States 
                shall fund, assist, authorize, or issue a license or 
                permit for the development of any new water resource 
                facility within the lands designated as wilderness by 
                this title.
    (d) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
lands within the wilderness areas designated or expanded by this title, 
including any land or interest in land within the areas that is 
acquired by the United States after the date of enactment of this Act, 
are withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 204. ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.

    (a) No Buffer Zones.--Congress does not intend for the designation 
of land as wilderness by this title to lead to the creation of 
protective perimeters or buffer zones around any wilderness area 
designated or expanded by this title.
    (b) Nonwilderness Activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within a wilderness 
area designated or expanded by this title shall not preclude the 
conduct of those activities or uses outside the boundary of the 
wilderness area.

SEC. 205. NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS USES.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to diminish the rights of 
any Indian tribe. Nothing in this title shall be construed to diminish 
tribal rights regarding access to Federal lands for tribal activities, 
including spiritual, cultural, and traditional food-gathering 
activities.

SEC. 206. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) State Jurisdiction.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title affects or 
diminishes the jurisdiction of the State of Nevada with respect to fish 
and wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, fishing, 
and trapping, in the wilderness areas designated or expanded by this 
title.
    (b) Management Activities.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
principles of the Wilderness Act, management activities to maintain or 
restore fish and wildlife populations and the habitats to support such 
populations may be carried out within wilderness areas designated or 
expanded by this title where consistent with relevant wilderness 
management plans, in accordance with appropriate policies such as those 
set forth in Appendix B of House Report 101-405, including the 
occasional and temporary use of motorized vehicles, if such use, as 
determined by the Secretary of the Interior, would promote healthy, 
viable, and more naturally distributed wildlife populations that would 
enhance wilderness values and accomplish those purposes with the 
minimum impact necessary to reasonably accomplish the task.
    (c) Existing Activities.--Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)) and in accordance with appropriate 
policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of House Report 101-405, 
the State of Nevada may continue to use aircraft, including 
helicopters, to survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and provide water 
for wildlife populations, including bighorn sheep, and feral stock, 
horses, and burros.
    (d) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--Subject to subsection 
(f), the Secretary of the Interior shall authorize structures and 
facilities, including existing structures and facilities, for wildlife 
water development projects, including guzzlers, in the wilderness areas 
designated or expanded by this title if--
            (1) the structures and facilities will, as determined by 
        the Secretary, enhance wilderness values by promoting healthy, 
        viable and more naturally distributed wildlife populations; and
            (2) the visual impacts of the structures and facilities on 
        the wilderness areas can reasonably be minimized.
    (e) Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping.--The Secretary of the Interior 
may designate, by regulation, areas in which, and establish periods 
during which, for reasons of public safety, administration, or 
compliance with applicable laws, no hunting, fishing, or trapping will 
be permitted in the wilderness areas designated or expanded by this 
title. Except in the case of an emergency, the Secretary shall make 
such designations in consultation with the appropriate agency of the 
State of Nevada.
    (f) Cooperative Agreement.--The State of Nevada, including a 
designee of the State, may conduct wildlife management activities in 
the wilderness areas designated or expanded by this title--
            (1) in accordance with the terms and conditions specified 
        in the cooperative agreement between the Secretary of the 
        Interior and the State entitled ``Memorandum of Understanding 
        between the Bureau of Land Management and the Nevada Department 
        of Wildlife Supplement No. 9'' and signed November and December 
        2003, including any amendments to the cooperative agreement 
        agreed to by the Secretary and the State; and
            (2) subject to all applicable laws and regulations.

SEC. 207. WILDFIRE MANAGEMENT.

    Consistent with section 4 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133), 
nothing in this title precludes a Federal, State, or local agency from 
conducting wildfire management operations (including operations using 
aircraft or mechanized equipment) to manage wildfires in the wilderness 
areas designated or expanded by this title.

SEC. 208. CLIMATOLOGICAL DATA COLLECTION.

    Subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary of the 
Interior may prescribe, nothing in this title precludes the 
installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, or 
climatological collection devices in the wilderness areas designated or 
expanded by this title if the facilities and access to the facilities 
are essential to flood warning, flood control, and water reservoir 
operation activities.

SEC. 209. NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM LANDS.

    To the extent any of the provisions of this title are in conflict 
with laws, regulations, or management policies applicable to Federal 
land within the Lake Mead National Recreation Area designated as 
wilderness by this title, those laws, regulations, or policies shall 
control.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 301. RELATIONSHIP TO CLARK COUNTY MULTI-SPECIES HABITAT 
              CONSERVATION PLAN.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed as limiting, altering, 
modifying, or amending the Clark County Multi-Species Habitat 
Conservation Plan with respect to the Gold Butte National Conservation 
Area established by title I and the lands designated as wilderness by 
title II, including the specific management actions contained in the 
Clark County Multi-Species Habitat Conservation Plan for the 
conservation of perennial springs. However, with respect to the Gold 
Butte National Conservation Area and the lands designated as 
wilderness, the Secretary of the Interior shall credit the conservation 
area and the lands as Conservation Management Areas, as may be required 
by the Clark County Multi-Species Habitat Conservation Plan or future 
amendments thereto.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
