<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6889 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6889

  To modernize the Fallon Range Training Complex in Churchill County, 
  Nevada, through the withdrawal and reservation of additional public 
 lands for military use, to allow for transfer of ownership of certain 
 Federal parcels in Nevada, to allow for disposal of Federal lands in 
   Nevada for economic development, to make technical corrections to 
        existing law, for conservation, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 15, 2020

  Mr. Amodei introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committees on 
Veterans' Affairs, Agriculture, and Armed Services, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To modernize the Fallon Range Training Complex in Churchill County, 
  Nevada, through the withdrawal and reservation of additional public 
 lands for military use, to allow for transfer of ownership of certain 
 Federal parcels in Nevada, to allow for disposal of Federal lands in 
   Nevada for economic development, to make technical corrections to 
        existing law, for conservation, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Northern Nevada 
Economic Development, Conservation and Military Modernization Act of 
2020''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
 DIVISION A--FALLON RANGE TRAINING COMPLEX LAND WITHDRAWAL AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

             TITLE I--FALLON RANGE TRAINING COMPLEX, NEVADA

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
Sec. 103. Withdrawal and reservation for Fallon Range Training Complex.
Sec. 104. Designation of a Special Land Management Overlay.
Sec. 105. Maps, estimates, and descriptions.
Sec. 106. Water.
Sec. 107. Shoal Site.
Sec. 108. Indian tribes.
Sec. 109. Integrated natural resources management plan.
Sec. 110. Duration of withdrawal.
Sec. 111. Road reconstruction and treatment of existing roads and 
                            rights-of-way.
Sec. 112. Termination of current Fallon Range Training Complex 
                            withdrawal and reservation.
   TITLE II--STILLWATER AND GRIMES POINT NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREAS

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Purpose.
Sec. 203. Definitions.
Sec. 204. Establishment.
Sec. 205. Management.
                      TITLE III--WILDERNESS AREAS

Sec. 301. Findings.
Sec. 302. Definitions.
Sec. 303. Additions to National Wilderness Preservation System.
Sec. 304. Administration.
Sec. 305. Adjacent management.
Sec. 306. Military overflights.
Sec. 307. Native American cultural and religious uses.
Sec. 308. Release of wilderness study areas.
Sec. 309. Wildlife management.
Sec. 310. Wildfire management.
Sec. 311. Climatological data collection.
                   TITLE IV--INTERSTATE 11 CORRIDORS

Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Purpose.
Sec. 403. Critical transportation corridors.
                     TITLE V--MUNICIPAL CONVEYANCES

Sec. 501. Short title.
Sec. 502. Purpose.
Sec. 503. Definitions.
Sec. 504. Land conveyances to county.
Sec. 505. Land conveyance to city.
                   TITLE VI--CHECKERBOARD RESOLUTION

Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Consolidation of checkerboard land ownership.
Sec. 603. Lands identified for disposal.
Sec. 604. Management Priority Areas.
Sec. 605. Withdrawal.
Sec. 606. Disposition of proceeds.
   DIVISION B--NORTHERN NEVADA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION

     TITLE I--DOUGLAS COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION

Sec. 101. Purpose.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
                 Subtitle A--Land Conveyances and Sales

Sec. 111. Conveyance to State of Nevada.
Sec. 112. Tahoe Rim Trail.
Sec. 113. Conveyance to Douglas County, Nevada.
Sec. 114. Sale of certain Federal land.
Sec. 115. Open Space Recreation Area.
                 Subtitle B--Tribal Cultural Resources

Sec. 121. Transfer of land to be held in trust for Tribe.
    Subtitle C--Resolution of Burbank Canyons Wilderness Study Area

Sec. 131. Addition to National Wilderness Preservation System.
Sec. 132. Administration.
Sec. 133. Fish and wildlife management.
Sec. 134. Release of wilderness study area.
Sec. 135. Native American cultural and religious uses.
Subtitle D--Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction Over Forest Service 
                                  Land

Sec. 141. Authority of Forest Service to transfer administrative 
                            jurisdiction to State or county for public 
                            purposes.
Sec. 142. Special use permits for recreation and public purposes.
               TITLE II--INCLINE VILLAGE FIRE PROTECTION

Sec. 201. Purpose.
Sec. 202. Definitions.
Sec. 203. Land conveyances for public purposes.
       TITLE III--NORTHERN NEVADA FLOOD PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT

Sec. 301. Purpose.
Sec. 302. Definitions.
Sec. 303. Land conveyances for flood protection.
        TITLE IV--LANDER COUNTY LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION

Sec. 401. Definitions.
Sec. 402. Findings.
Sec. 403. Conveyance to Lander County, Nevada.
Sec. 404. Survey.
Sec. 405. Maps, estimates, descriptions.
Sec. 406. Reversion.
                   TITLE V--RUBY MOUNTAINS PROTECTION

Sec. 501. Short title.
Sec. 502. Withdrawal of certain National Forest System land.
             TITLE VI--CARSON CITY PUBLIC LANDS CORRECTION

Sec. 601. Definitions.
Sec. 602. Land conveyances.
Sec. 603. Carson City Street Connector conveyance.
Sec. 604. Amendment to reversionary interests.
Sec. 605. Disposal of Federal land.
Sec. 606. Transfer of land to the United States.
Sec. 607. Disposition of proceeds.
Sec. 608. Postponement; exclusion from sale.
    TITLE VII--PERSHING COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION

Sec. 701. Short title.
Sec. 702. Definitions.
                Subtitle A--Checkerboard Land Resolution

Sec. 711. Findings.
Sec. 712. Definitions.
Sec. 713. Sale or exchange of eligible land.
Sec. 714. Sale of encumbered land.
Sec. 715. Disposition of proceeds.
Sec. 716. Conveyance of land for use as a public cemetery.
                      Subtitle B--Wilderness Areas

Sec. 721. Additions to the National Wilderness Preservation System.
Sec. 722. Administration.
Sec. 723. Wildlife management.
Sec. 724. Release of wilderness study areas.
Sec. 725. Native American cultural and religious uses.
 TITLE VIII--ALLOWING FOR THE TRANSFER OF FEDERAL LANDS TO BE USED AS 
                          NATIONAL CEMETERIES

Sec. 801. Allowing for the transfer of Federal lands to be used as 
                            national cemeteries.
                       TITLE IX--FEDERAL COMPLEX

Sec. 901. Federal complex.
                         TITLE X--SMALL TRACTS

Sec. 1001. Short title.
Sec. 1002. Additional authority for sale or exchange of small parcels 
                            of National Forest System land.
TITLE XI--IMPLEMENTATION OF WHITE PINE COUNTY CONSERVATION, RECREATION, 
                          AND DEVELOPMENT ACT

Sec. 1101. Disposition of proceeds.
Sec. 1102. Conveyance to White Pine County, Nevada.
Sec. 1103. Issuance of Corrective Patents.
              TITLE XII--CONVEYANCES TO THE CITY OF SPARKS

Sec. 1201. Definitions.
Sec. 1202. Conveyance of land for use as a public cemetery.
Sec. 1203. Conveyance of land for use as regional public parks.
                TITLE XIII--CONVEYANCE TO WASHOE COUNTY

Sec. 1301. Definitions.
Sec. 1302. Conveyance of land subject to development agreement.
                     TITLE XIV--GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1401. Public purpose conveyances.
Sec. 1402. Use of certain sand and gravel.
Sec. 1403. Administration of State water rights.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Since the onset of airborne naval military training in 
        Nevada as early as 1944, residents of the Silver State have 
        coped with the direct and indirect effects of training 
        overflights.
            (2) Such effects are heard, seen, and felt most acutely 
        near the bases and bombing ranges dedicated to furthering the 
        United States military's mission interests, but extend more 
        than 100 miles beyond, for example, Naval Air Station Fallon.
            (3) Additionally, Nevadans who live and work beneath 
        dedicated air training routes throughout central, north-
        central, and northwestern Nevada live with persistent noise and 
        periodic disruptions related to training activities day and 
        night.
            (4) Although direct impacts of military training are 
        centered in Churchill County to the north, east, and south of 
        Fallon, adjoining counties also commonly endure both high- and 
        low-level overflights. Pershing, Lander Nye, Mineral, Washoe, 
        and Lyon counties shoulder much of this burden.
            (5) Providing for the common sense rationalization of the 
        19th century checkerboard land-ownership and public interest 
        conveyances of land, for example, for fire stations, airports, 
        and municipal parks, represents reasonable mitigation for 
        ongoing impacts to Nevada's communities.
            (6) The Fallon Range Training Complex and Naval Air Station 
        Fallon's economic, environmental, and community impacts are 
        seen throughout all of northern Nevada and are not limited to 
        just the Fallon Range Training Complex's geographic footprint.
            (7) On April 15, 2020, the Churchill County Board of 
        Commissioners passed a resolution supporting legislation to 
        address and mitigate the Navy's Record of Decision through the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, as 
        well as allow for conveyances for economic development and 
        public purposes in Churchill County, as depicted by the 
        County's updated map entitled ``Churchill County Proposed 
        Fallon Range Training Complex Modernization and Lands Bill'' 
        and dated March 18, 2020, as identified in division A of this 
        Act.
            (8) On April 5, 2018, the Douglas County Board of 
        Commissioners requested that the Nevada congressional 
        delegation reintroduce the Douglas County Economic Development 
        and Conservation Act, included as title I of division B of this 
        Act.
            (9) On October 10, 2019, the Lander County Board of 
        Commissioners passed a resolution expressing support for the 
        introduction of legislation promoting certain public safety, 
        public welfare, public parks, and tourism opportunities, 
        included as title IV of division B of this Act.
            (10) On November 15, 2018, the Carson City Board of 
        Supervisors passed a resolution expressing support for the 
        introduction of legislation containing certain conveyances and 
        technical corrections, included as title VI of division B of 
        this Act.
            (11) On December 9, 2019, the Pershing County Board of 
        Commissioners requested that the Nevada congressional 
        delegation support the Pershing County Economic Development and 
        Conservation Act, included as title VII of division B of this 
        Act.
            (12) On November 13, 2019, the White Pine County Board of 
        Commissioners passed a resolution requesting reintroduction of 
        the technical corrections provided for in the White Pine County 
        Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act, included as 
        title XI of division B of this Act.

 DIVISION A--FALLON RANGE TRAINING COMPLEX LAND WITHDRAWAL AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

             TITLE I--FALLON RANGE TRAINING COMPLEX, NEVADA

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Fallon Range Training Complex Land 
Withdrawal Act of 2020''.

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) County.--The term ``county'' means Churchill County, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Churchill County Proposed Fallon Range Training Complex 
        Modernization and Lands Bill'' and dated March 18, 2020.

SEC. 103. WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION FOR FALLON RANGE TRAINING COMPLEX.

    (a) Withdrawal.--
            (1) B-16, b-17, b-19, and b-20 ranges.--The lands 
        established as the B-16, B-17, B-19, and B-20 ranges at the 
        Fallon Range Training Complex, as depicted on the map, which 
        may become subject to the operation of the public land laws, 
        are hereby withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the 
        public land laws, including the mining laws, the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and 
        the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing laws.
            (2) Dixie valley special management area.--The lands 
        established at the Dixie Valley Special Management Area at the 
        Fallon Range Training Complex, as depicted on the map, which 
        may become subject to the operation of the public land laws, 
        are hereby withdrawn from mining laws, but not all other forms 
        of appropriation under the public land laws, including the 
        Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 
        et seq.), geothermal leasing laws, or the Taylor Grazing Act.
            (3) Existing rights and conditions.--The withdrawal of 
        lands by this subsection is subject to valid existing rights 
        and subject to the other provisions of this title.
    (b) Reservation.--
            (1) B-16, b-17, b-19, and b-20 ranges.--The lands withdrawn 
        by subsection (a)(1) are reserved for use by the Secretary of 
        the Navy for testing and training for aerial bombing, missile 
        firing, and tactical maneuvering and air support.
            (2) Dixie valley special management area.--The lands 
        withdrawn by subsection (a)(2) are available for use by the 
        Secretary of the Navy in a manner consistent with the needs of 
        the Navy as detailed in the Fallon Range Training Complex 
        Record of Decision dated March 12, 2020, and shall not require 
        further administrative approval under the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
    (c) Special Rules for B-16, B-17, B-19, and B-20 Ranges.--
            (1) Access.--The Secretary of the Navy shall allow and 
        manage access to the lands withdrawn by subsection (a)(1) for--
                    (A) administrative, cultural, educational, wildlife 
                management, and emergency management purposes; and
                    (B) special events, including a minimum 15-days 
                annually for big game hunting on the B-17 range.
            (2) Road access.--The Secretary of the Navy shall ensure 
        that all roads mapped as RS 2477 roads on the map are available 
        for managed access.
            (3) Relinquishment.--Any lands otherwise withdrawn by 
        subsection (a)(1) but located outside of the Weapons Danger 
        Zones determined by the Secretary of the Navy shall be 
        relinquished to the Secretary of the Interior and managed under 
        all applicable public land laws.
            (4) Treatment of biologically sensitive areas.--The 
        Secretary of the Navy shall ensure avoidance of target 
        placement and training within biologically sensitive areas as 
        mapped in Appendix D of the Final Environmental Impact 
        Statement dated January 2020 and entitled ``Environmental 
        Impact Statement: Fallon Range Training Complex 
        Modernization''.
    (d) Special Rules for Dixie Valley Special Management Area.--The 
operation of the Dixie Valley Special Management Area withdrawn by 
subsection (a)(2) shall, to the maximum extent possible, provide for 
the following:
            (1) Installation of permanent aircraft threat emitters and 
        two electronic warfare training sites.
            (2) Temporary aircraft threat emitters.
            (3) Ground training and convoy training that utilizes 
        existing roads.
            (4) Aircraft training that would include a flight floor of 
        50 feet above ground level, except for that area designated as 
        a flight sanctuary area.
            (5) No restriction or curtailment on public access and 
        recreation for the duration of the withdrawal.
            (6) Livestock grazing.
            (7) The Dixie Valley Water Project of the county.
            (8) Geothermal exploration and development west of State 
        Route 121, as managed by the Bureau of Land Management in 
        coordination with the Navy.
            (9) Exploration and development, as managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management in coordination with the Navy, of salable 
        minerals or other fluid or leasable minerals.
            (10) Perpetual rights-of-way for all existing roads 
        identified by the county as RS 2477 roads.
            (11) Utility rights-of-way immediately west of the existing 
        north-south powerline along SR 121 and immediately north of 
        U.S. Highway 50.
    (e) Secretary of the Interior Duties for Dixie Valley Special 
Management Area.--As soon as practicable after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall ensure the 
following actions occur regarding the lands withdrawn by subsection 
(a)(2):
            (1) No restriction or curtailment on public access and 
        recreation for the duration of the withdrawal.
            (2) Grant perpetual rights-of-way to the county for all 
        roads mapped as RS 2477.
            (3) That geothermal exploration and development allowable 
        west of SR 121 under the required design features described by 
        the Secretary of the Navy.
            (4) Allow the Dixie Valley Water Project and complete 
        permitting in collaboration with the Navy. The Secretary of the 
        Navy shall compensate the county for any project cost increases 
        as a result of Navy required design features.

SEC. 104. DESIGNATION OF A SPECIAL LAND MANAGEMENT OVERLAY.

    Subject to valid existing rights and except as otherwise provided 
in this title, the lands established as the Special Land Management 
Overlay as depicted on the map, which will remain subject to the 
operation of all public land laws under jurisdiction of the Secretary 
of the Interior are hereby designated as a Special Land Management 
Overlay, as detailed in the Fallon Range Training Complex Record of 
Decision dated March 12, 2020.

SEC. 105. MAPS, ESTIMATES, AND DESCRIPTIONS.

    (a) Minor Errors and Adjustments.--The Secretary and the county 
may, by mutual agreement--
            (1) make minor boundary adjustments to the lands withdrawn 
        by section 103(a); and
            (2) correct any minor errors in the map and in any acreage 
        estimate or description of any land withdrawn by section 
        103(a).
    (b) Conflict.--If there is a conflict between the map, an acreage 
estimate, or a description of land under this title, the map shall 
control unless the Secretary of the Interior and the county mutually 
agree otherwise.
    (c) Availability.--Copies of the map shall be available for public 
inspection in the offices of the Nevada State Director and Carson City 
Field Office Manager of the Bureau of Land Management and the Office of 
the Commander, Naval Air Station, Fallon, Nevada.
    (d) Costs.--The Secretary of the Navy shall reimburse the Secretary 
of the Interior for the costs incurred by the Secretary of the Interior 
in implementing this section.

SEC. 106. WATER.

    Effective as of the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that the Navy complies with the 
portion of the memorandum of understanding between the Department of 
the Navy and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service dated July 26, 
1995, requiring the Navy to limit water rights to the maximum extent 
practicable, consistent with safety of operations, for Naval Air 
Station Fallon, Nevada, currently not more than 4,402 acre-feet of 
water per year.

SEC. 107. SHOAL SITE.

    The Secretary of Energy shall remain responsible and liable for the 
subsurface estate and all its activities at the ``Shoal Site'' 
withdrawn and reserved by Public Land Order Number 2771, as amended by 
Public Land Order Number 2834. The Secretary of the Navy shall be 
responsible for the management and use of the surface estate at the 
``Shoal Site'' pursuant to the withdrawal and reservation made by 
section 3011(a) of the Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (title XXX 
of Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 885).

SEC. 108. INDIAN TRIBES.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed as altering any rights 
reserved for Indian tribes or members of an Indian tribe by treaty or 
Federal law.

SEC. 109. INTEGRATED NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) Preparation Required.--Within two years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of 
the Interior shall jointly prepare an integrated natural resources 
management plan for the lands withdrawn and reserved by section 103.
    (b) Resolution of Conflicts.--Any disagreement concerning the 
contents of the resulting integrated natural resources management plan 
(or any subsequent amendments to the plan) shall be resolved by the 
Secretary of the Navy, after consultation with the Secretary of the 
Interior, acting through the Nevada State Director of the Bureau of 
Land Management and, as appropriate, the Regional Director of the 
United States Fish and Wildlife Service. This resolution authority may 
be delegated to the commander of Naval Air Station Fallon, Nevada.
    (c) Elements of Plan.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
integrated natural resources management plan shall be prepared and 
implemented in accordance with the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670a et seq.) 
and the requirements of this section, and shall--
            (1) include provisions for proper management and protection 
        of the natural and cultural resources, and for sustainable use 
        by the public of such resources to the extent consistent with 
        the military purposes for which the lands are withdrawn and 
        reserved;
            (2) be developed in consultation with affected Indian 
        Tribes and shall include provisions that address how the 
        Secretary of the Navy intends to--
                    (A) meet the United States trust responsibilities 
                with respect to Indian Tribes, lands, and rights 
                reserved by treaty or Federal law affected by the 
                withdrawal and reservation;
                    (B) allow access to and ceremonial use of Indian 
                sacred sites to the extent consistent with the military 
                purposes for which the lands are withdrawn and 
                reserved; and
                    (C) provide for timely consultation with affected 
                Indian Tribes;
            (3) provide that any hunting, fishing, and trapping on the 
        lands withdrawn and reserved by this title shall be conducted 
        in accordance with the provisions of section 2671 of title 10, 
        United States Code;
            (4) provide for livestock grazing and agricultural out-
        leasing, if appropriate, in accordance with section 2667 of 
        title 10, United States Code, and at the discretion of the 
        Secretary of the Navy;
            (5) identify current test and target impact areas and 
        related buffer or safety zones;
            (6) provide that the Secretary of the Navy--
                    (A) shall take necessary actions to prevent, 
                suppress, manage, and rehabilitate brush and range 
                fires occurring within the boundaries of the Fallon 
                Range Training Complex and brush and range fires 
                occurring outside the boundaries of the Fallon Range 
                Training Complex resulting from military activities; 
                and
                    (B) notwithstanding the provisions of section 2465 
                of title 10, United States Code, may obligate funds 
                appropriated or otherwise available to the Secretary of 
                the Navy to enter into memoranda of understanding, 
                cooperative agreements, and contracts for fire 
                management and reimburse the Secretary of the Interior 
                for costs incurred under this paragraph;
            (7) provide that all gates, fences, and barriers 
        constructed after the enactment of this title shall be designed 
        and erected to allow wildlife access, to the extent practicable 
        and consistent with military security, safety, and sound 
        wildlife management use;
            (8) incorporate any existing management plans pertaining to 
        the lands withdrawn and reserved by section 103, to the extent 
        that the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the 
        Interior, upon reviewing any such plans, mutually determine 
        that incorporation into a plan pursuant to this section is 
        appropriate;
            (9) include procedures to ensure that the periodic reviews 
        of the plan required by the Sikes Act are conducted jointly by 
        the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Interior, 
        and that affected States and Indian tribes, and the public are 
        provided a meaningful opportunity to comment upon any 
        substantial revisions to the plan that may be proposed; and
            (10) provide procedures to amend the plan as necessary.

SEC. 110. DURATION OF WITHDRAWAL.

    (a) Termination Date.--The withdrawal and reservation of lands made 
by section 103 shall terminate at the end of the 20-year period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Effect of Termination.--Effective on the date of termination, 
the previously withdrawn lands shall not be open to any forms of 
appropriation under the general land laws, including the mining, 
mineral leasing, and geothermal leasing laws, until the Secretary of 
the Interior publishes in the Federal Register an appropriate order 
that shall state the date upon which such lands shall be restored to 
the public domain and opened.

SEC. 111. ROAD RECONSTRUCTION AND TREATMENT OF EXISTING ROADS AND 
              RIGHTS-OF-WAY.

    (a) Road Reconstruction.--The Secretary of the Navy shall be 
responsible for the timely--
            (1) reconstruction of Lone Tree Road in the B-16 range and 
        State Highway 361 in the B-17 range; and
            (2) the relocation of Sand Canyon/Red Mountain Roads.
    (b) Existing Roads and Rights-of-Way.--The withdrawal and 
reservation made by this title shall not affect the following roads and 
associated rights-of-way:
            (1) U.S. Highways 50 and 95.
            (2) State Routes 121 and 839.
            (3) County Roads identified as Simpson Road, East County 
        Road, Pole Line Road, Earthquake Fault Road, and Fairview Peak 
        Road.
    (c) RS 2477 Claims.--The withdrawal and reservation made by this 
title shall in no way obstruct or interfere with the County's ability 
to seek adjudication of RS 2477 claims for existing County Roads.

SEC. 112. TERMINATION OF CURRENT FALLON RANGE TRAINING COMPLEX 
              WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION.

    Except as otherwise provided in this title, the land withdrawal and 
reservation made by section 3011(a) of the Military Lands Withdrawal 
Act of 1999 (title XXX of Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 885) shall 
terminate upon enactment of this Act.

   TITLE II--STILLWATER AND GRIMES POINT NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREAS

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Stillwater and Grimes Point 
National Conservation Areas Act''.

SEC. 202. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to establish the Stillwater National 
Conservation Area and the Grimes Point National Conservation Area to 
conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of present 
and future generations the cultural, archaeological, natural, 
wilderness, scientific, geological, historical, biological, wildlife, 
educational, and scenic resources of the Conservation Areas.

SEC. 203. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Conservation areas.--The term ``Conservation Areas'' 
        means the Stillwater National Conservation Area and the Grimes 
        Point National Conservation Area established by section 204(a).
            (2) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Conservation Areas developed under 
        section 205(b).
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Churchill County Proposed Fallon Range Training Complex 
        Modernization and Lands Bill'' and dated March 18, 2020.

SEC. 204. ESTABLISHMENT.

    (a) In General.--For the purpose described in section 202, there is 
established in the State of Nevada two conservation areas, one to be 
known as the ``Stillwater National Conservation Area'' and the other to 
be known as the ``Grimes Point National Conservation Area''.
    (b) Area Included.--The Conservation Areas shall consist of 
approximately 160,246 acres of public land in the county, as generally 
depicted on the map.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        submit to Congress a map and legal description of the 
        Conservation Areas.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description shall have the 
        same force and effect as if included in this section, except 
        that the Secretary may correct minor errors in the map or legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--A copy of the map and legal 
        description shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.

SEC. 205. MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall manage the 
Conservation Areas--
            (1) in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances the 
        resources of the Conservation Areas, including the management 
        of wildfire, invasive species, and wildlife, and wildfire 
        restoration;
            (2) in accordance with--
                    (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (B) other applicable law, including this title; and
            (3) as a component of the National Landscape Conservation 
        System.
    (b) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than three years after the date 
        of enactment of this Act and in accordance with paragraph (2), 
        the Secretary of the Interior shall develop a comprehensive 
        plan for the long-term management of the Conservation Areas.
            (2) Consultation.--In developing the management plan 
        required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with--
                    (A) appropriate Federal, State, Tribal, and local 
                governmental entities; and
                    (B) members of the public.
            (3) Requirements.--The management plan shall--
                    (A) describe the appropriate uses of the 
                Conservation Areas;
                    (B) authorize the appropriate use of motor vehicles 
                in the Conservation Areas including the maintenance of 
                existing roads; and
                    (C) incorporate any provision of the applicable 
                land and resource management plans as the Secretary 
                considers appropriate.
    (c) Uses.--The Secretary of the Interior shall allow only such uses 
of the Conservation Areas that the Secretary determines will further 
the purposes described in section 202.
    (d) Motorized Vehicles.--Except as needed for administrative 
purposes or to respond to an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles 
in the Conservation Areas shall be permitted only on roads and trails 
designated for the use of motorized vehicles by the management plan.
    (e) Withdrawal.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, all 
        public land in the Conservation Areas is withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry and appropriation under 
                public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and appropriation under the 
                public land laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
                materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
            (2) Additional land.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
        of law, if the Secretary of the Interior acquires mineral or 
        other interests in a parcel of land within the Conservation 
        Areas after the date of enactment of this Act, the parcel is 
        withdrawn from operation of the laws referred to in paragraph 
        (1) on the date of acquisition of the land.
    (f) Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title affects the 
        jurisdiction of the State of Nevada with respect to fish and 
        wildlife, including hunting, fishing, and trapping in the 
        Conservation Areas.
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A) Regulations.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
                designate by regulation areas in which, and establish 
                periods during which, for reasons of public safety, 
                administration, or compliance with applicable laws, no 
                hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the 
                Conservation Areas.
                    (B) Consultation.--Except in emergencies, the 
                Secretary shall consult with the appropriate State 
                agency before promulgating regulations under 
                subparagraph (A) that close a portion of the 
                Conservation Areas to hunting, fishing, or trapping.
    (g) Grazing.--In the case of lands included in the Conservation 
Areas on which the Secretary of the Interior permitted, as of the date 
of the enactment of this Act, livestock grazing, such grazing shall be 
allowed to continue subject to applicable laws, regulations, and 
Executive orders.
    (h) No Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--The establishment of the Conservation 
        Areas shall not create an express or implied protective 
        perimeter or buffer zone around the Conservation Areas.
            (2) Private land.--If the use of, or conduct of, an 
        activity on private land that shares a boundary with the 
        Conservation Areas is consistent with applicable law, nothing 
        in this title concerning the establishment of the Conservation 
        Areas shall prohibit or limit the use or conduct of the 
        activity.
    (i) Visitor Service Facilities.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
establish, in cooperation with other public or private entities as the 
Secretary may deem appropriate, visitor service facilities for the 
purpose of providing information about the historical, cultural, 
archaeological, ecological, recreational, geologic, scientific, and 
other resources of the Conservation Areas.

                      TITLE III--WILDERNESS AREAS

SEC. 301. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) public land in the county contains unique and 
        spectacular natural resources, including--
                    (A) priceless habitat for numerous species of 
                plants and wildlife;
                    (B) thousands of acres of land that remain in a 
                natural state; and
                    (C) habitat critical to the survival and recovery 
                of the greater sage grouse;
            (2) continued preservation of those areas would benefit the 
        county and all of the United States by--
                    (A) ensuring the conservation of ecologically 
                diverse habitat;
                    (B) protecting prehistoric cultural resources;
                    (C) conserving primitive recreational resources;
                    (D) protecting air and water quality; and
                    (E) protecting, enhancing, and restoring greater 
                sage grouse habitat and populations; and
            (3) the Secretary should collaborate with the State of 
        Nevada and the Churchill County Commission on wildfire and 
        rangeland management, planning, and implementation with the 
        goal of preventing catastrophic wildfire and resource damage.

SEC. 302. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) County.--The term ``county'' means Churchill County, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.

SEC. 303. ADDITIONS TO NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Additions.--The following land in the State is designated as 
wilderness and as components of the National Wilderness Preservation 
System:
            (1) Clan alpine mountains wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 128,371 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Churchill County Land Status Map'', dated March 18, 
        2020, which shall be known as the ``Clan Alpine Mountains 
        Wilderness''.
            (2) Desatoya mountains wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 32,537 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Churchill County Land Status Map'', dated March 18, 
        2020, which shall be known as the ``Desatoya Mountains 
        Wilderness''.
            (3) Cain mountain wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        7,664 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Churchill County Land Status Map'', dated March 18, 2020, 
        which, together with the Federal land designated as wilderness 
        by section 721(a)(1) of division B, shall be known as the 
        ``Cain Mountain Wilderness''.
    (b) Boundary.--The boundary of any portion of a wilderness area 
designated by subsection (a) that is bordered by a road shall be at 
least 150 feet from the edge of the road to allow public access.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and legal 
        description of each wilderness area designated by subsection 
        (a) with the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate.
            (2) Effect.--Each map and legal description shall have the 
        same force and effect as if included in this section, except 
        that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical 
        errors in the map or legal description.
            (3) Availability.--Each map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in (as 
        appropriate)--
                    (A) the Office of the Director of the Bureau of 
                Land Management;
                    (B) the Office of the Nevada State Director of the 
                Bureau of Land Management;
                    (C) the Carson City Field Office of the Bureau of 
                Land Management; and
                    (D) the Fallon Field Station of the Bureau of Land 
                Management.
    (d) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas designated by subsection (a) are withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing 
        laws.

SEC. 304. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, each area 
designated as wilderness by this title shall be administered by the 
Secretary in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in that Act to the effective date shall 
        be considered to be a reference to the date of the enactment of 
        this Act; and
            (2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        Secretary of the Interior.
    (b) Livestock.--Within the wilderness areas designated under this 
title that are administered by the Bureau of Land Management, the 
grazing of livestock in areas in which grazing is established as of the 
date of enactment of this Act shall be allowed to continue, subject to 
such reasonable regulations, policies, and practices that the Secretary 
considers necessary, consistent with section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)), including the guidelines set forth in 
Appendix A of House Report 101-405.
    (c) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land or 
interest in land within the boundaries of an area designated as 
wilderness by this title that is acquired by the United States after 
the date of the enactment of this Act shall be added to and 
administered as part of the wilderness area within which the acquired 
land or interest is located.
    (d) Water Rights.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) the land designated as wilderness by this title 
                is within the Great Basin region, is semiarid in 
                nature, and includes ephemeral and perennial streams;
                    (B) the hydrology of the land designated as 
                wilderness by this title is predominantly characterized 
                by complex flow patterns and alluvial fans with 
                impermanent channels;
                    (C) the subsurface hydrogeology of the region is 
                characterized by ground water subject to local and 
                regional flow gradients and unconfined and artesian 
                conditions;
                    (D) the land designated as wilderness by this title 
                is generally not suitable for use or development of new 
                water resource facilities; and
                    (E) because of the unique nature and hydrology of 
                the desert land designated as wilderness by this title, 
                it is possible to provide for proper management and 
                protection of the wilderness and other values of lands 
                in ways different from those used in other legislation.
            (2) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) shall constitute or be construed to constitute 
                either an express or implied reservation by the United 
                States of any water or water rights with respect to the 
                land designated as wilderness by this title;
                    (B) shall affect any water rights in the State 
                existing on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
                including any water rights held by the United States;
                    (C) shall be construed as establishing a precedent 
                with regard to any future wilderness designations;
                    (D) shall affect the interpretation of, or any 
                designation made pursuant to, any other Act; or
                    (E) shall be construed as limiting, altering, 
                modifying, or amending any of the interstate compacts 
                or equitable apportionment decrees that apportion water 
                among and between the State and other States.
            (3) Nevada water law.--The Secretary shall follow the 
        procedural and substantive requirements of the law of the State 
        in order to obtain and hold any water rights not in existence 
        on the date of enactment of this Act with respect to the 
        wilderness areas designated by this title.
            (4) New projects.--
                    (A) Water resource facility.--As used in this 
                paragraph, the term ``water resource facility''--
                            (i) means irrigation and pumping 
                        facilities, reservoirs, water conservation 
                        works, aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, 
                        wells, hydropower projects, and transmission 
                        and other ancillary facilities, and other water 
                        diversion, storage, and carriage structures; 
                        and
                            (ii) does not include wildlife guzzlers.
                    (B) Restriction on new water resource facilities.--
                Except as otherwise provided in this title, on and 
                after the date of the enactment of this Act, neither 
                the President nor any other officer, employee, or agent 
                of the United States shall fund, assist, authorize, or 
                issue a license or permit for the development of any 
                new water resource facility within the wilderness areas 
                designated by this title.

SEC. 305. ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--Congress does not intend for the designation of 
wilderness in the State pursuant to this title to lead to the creation 
of protective perimeters or buffer zones around any such wilderness 
area.
    (b) Nonwilderness Activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within a wilderness 
designated under this title shall not preclude the conduct of those 
activities or uses outside the boundary of the wilderness area.

SEC. 306. MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.

    Nothing in this title restricts or precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        areas designated as wilderness by this title, including 
        military overflights that can be seen or heard within the 
        wilderness areas;
            (2) flight testing and evaluation; or
            (3) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace, or the establishment of military flight training 
        routes, over the wilderness areas.

SEC. 307. NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS USES.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to diminish the rights of 
any Indian tribe. Nothing in this title shall be construed to diminish 
Tribal rights regarding access to Federal land for Tribal activities, 
including spiritual, cultural, and traditional food-gathering 
activities.

SEC. 308. RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of section 603 
of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782), 
the public land in the county administered by the Bureau of Land 
Management in the following areas has been adequately studied for 
wilderness designation:
            (1) The Stillwater Range Wilderness Study Area.
            (2) The Job Peak Wilderness Study Area.
            (3) The Clan Alpine Mountains Wilderness Study Area.
            (4) That portion of the Augusta Mountains Wilderness Study 
        Area located within the county.
            (5) That portion of the Desatoya Mountains Wilderness Study 
        Area located within the county.
            (6) Any portion of the wilderness study areas--
                    (A) not designated as wilderness by section 303(a); 
                and
                    (B) depicted as released on the map entitled 
                ``Churchill County Proposed Fallon Range Training 
                Complex Modernization and Lands Bill'' and dated March 
                18, 2020.
    (b) Release.--Any public land described in subsection (a) that is 
not designated as wilderness by this title--
            (1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c));
            (2) shall be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) land management plans adopted under section 202 
                of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1712); and
                    (B) existing cooperative conservation agreements; 
                and
            (3) shall be subject to the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
        (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).

SEC. 309. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title affects or 
diminishes the jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and 
wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, fishing, and 
trapping, in the wilderness areas designated by this title.
    (b) Management Activities.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
principles of the Wilderness Act, management activities to maintain or 
restore fish and wildlife populations and the habitats to support such 
populations shall be carried out within wilderness areas designated by 
this title where consistent with relevant wilderness management plans, 
in accordance with appropriate policies such as those set forth in 
Appendix B of House Report 101-405, including the occasional and 
temporary use of motorized vehicles, if such use, as determined by the 
Secretary, would promote healthy, viable, and more naturally 
distributed wildlife populations that would enhance wilderness values 
with the minimum impact necessary to reasonably accomplish the task.
    (c) Existing Activities.--Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)) and in accordance with appropriate 
policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of House Report 101-405, 
the State may continue to use aircraft, including helicopters, to 
survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and provide water for wildlife 
populations, including bighorn sheep, and feral stock, horses, and 
burros. Wildlife tracking devices shall be allowed consistent with 
historic wildlife management practices and shall not be considered as 
installations.
    (d) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--Subject to subsection 
(f), the Secretary shall authorize structures and facilities, including 
existing structures and facilities, for wildlife water development 
projects, including guzzlers, in the wilderness areas designated by 
this title if--
            (1) the structures and facilities will, as determined by 
        the Secretary, enhance wilderness values by promoting healthy, 
        viable, and more naturally distributed wildlife populations; 
        and
            (2) the visual impacts of the structures and facilities on 
        the wilderness areas can reasonably be minimized.
    (e) Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping.--In consultation with the 
appropriate State agency (except in emergencies), the Secretary may 
designate by regulation areas in which, and establish periods during 
which, for reasons of public safety, administration, or compliance with 
applicable laws, no hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in 
the wilderness areas designated by this title.
    (f) Cooperative Agreement.--The terms and conditions under which 
the State, including a designee of the State, may conduct wildlife 
management activities in the wilderness areas designated by this title 
are specified in the cooperative agreement between the Secretary and 
the State, titled ``Memorandum of Understanding between the Bureau of 
Land Management and the Nevada Department of Wildlife Supplement 9'', 
and signed November 29, 2012, including any amendments to that document 
agreed upon by the Secretary and the State and subject to all 
applicable laws and regulations. Any references to Clark County in that 
document shall also be deemed to refer to and shall apply to Churchill 
County, Nevada.

SEC. 310. WILDFIRE MANAGEMENT.

    Consistent with section 4 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133), 
nothing in this title precludes a Federal, State, or local agency from 
conducting wildfire management operations (including operations using 
aircraft or mechanized equipment) to manage wildfires in the wilderness 
areas designated by this title.

SEC. 311. CLIMATOLOGICAL DATA COLLECTION.

    Subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may 
prescribe, nothing in this title precludes the installation and 
maintenance of hydrologic, meteorological, or climatological collection 
devices in the wilderness areas designated by this title if the 
facilities and access to the facilities are essential to flood warning, 
flood control, and water reservoir operation activities.

                   TITLE IV--INTERSTATE 11 CORRIDORS

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``I-11 Transportation and Utility 
Corridors Act''.

SEC. 402. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to maintain for future development 
corridors for transportation and utilities in Churchill County, Nevada.

SEC. 403. CRITICAL TRANSPORTATION CORRIDORS.

    (a) Management of Interstate 11 Corridors.--The Secretary of the 
Interior shall manage the land located along the corridors depicted as 
the ``County Preferred I-11 Corridor'' and ``NDOT I-11 Corridor'' on 
the map entitled ``Churchill County Proposed Fallon Range Training 
Complex Modernization and Lands Bill'' and dated March 18, 2020, in 
accordance with this section.
    (b) Management of Red Mountain Road Corridors.--The Secretary of 
the Interior shall manage land located along the corridors depicted as 
``County Preferred Red Mountain Road Realignment'' and ``County 
Alternate Red Mountain Road Realignment'' on the map entitled 
``Churchill County Proposed Fallon Range Training Complex Modernization 
and Lands Bill'' and dated March 18, 2020, in accordance with this 
section.
    (c) Management of the Pole Line Road Corridor.--The Secretary of 
the Interior shall manage land located along the corridors depicted as 
``Pole Line Road'' on the map entitled ``Churchill County Proposed 
Fallon Range Training Complex Modernization and Lands Bill'' and dated 
March 18, 2020, in accordance with this section.
    (d) Public Availability.--A copy of the map referred to in this 
section shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (e) Withdrawal of Land.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
corridors described in this section are withdrawn from location and 
entry under the mining laws, and from operation under the mineral 
leasing and geothermal leasing laws, until such time as--
            (1) the Secretary of the Interior terminates the 
        withdrawal; or
            (2) the corridors or land, respectively, is patented.
    (f) Transportation and Utility Corridors.--Notwithstanding sections 
202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1712, 1713), the Secretary of the Interior shall, in 
consultation with Churchill County and the State of Nevada, in 
accordance with this section and other applicable laws, establish--
            (1) 2,640-foot-wide rights-of-way for the placement, on a 
        nonexclusive basis, of utilities and transportation for 
        Interstate 11;
            (2) a 1,000-foot-wide right-of-way for the placement, on a 
        nonexclusive basis, of utilities and transportation for Red 
        Mountain Road; and
            (3) a 1,000-foot-wide right-of-way for the placement, on a 
        nonexclusive basis, of transportation for Pole Line Road.

                     TITLE V--MUNICIPAL CONVEYANCES

SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Municipal Conveyances within 
Churchill County Act''.

SEC. 502. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to provide land suitable for economic 
development to Churchill County, Nevada, to compensate for the loss of 
taxable lands related to the military land withdrawal made by title I, 
and to provide land suitable for public purposes to Churchill County, 
Nevada, and the City of Fallon, Nevada.

SEC. 503. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) City.--The term ``city'' means Fallon, Nevada.
            (2) County.--The term ``county'' means Churchill County, 
        Nevada.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Churchill County Proposed Fallon Range Training Complex 
        Modernization and Lands Bill'' and dated March 18, 2020.

SEC. 504. LAND CONVEYANCES TO COUNTY.

    (a) Public Purposes Conveyance.--
            (1) Conveyance required.--Notwithstanding section 202 of 
        the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1712), the Secretary of the Interior shall convey, subject to 
        valid existing rights, for no consideration, all right, title, 
        and interest of the United States in and to the approximately 
        7,160 acres of land labeled ``Public Purpose Conveyances'' on 
        the map.
            (2) Reversion.--If the parcel of land conveyed to the 
        county under this subsection ceases to be used consistent with 
        the Recreation and Public Purposes Act (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), 
        the parcel of land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary of 
        the Interior, revert to the United States.
    (b) Mitigation Conveyance.--Notwithstanding section 202 of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), the 
Secretary of the Interior shall convey, within 60 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act and subject to valid existing rights, for 
no consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States 
in and to the approximately 11,452 acres of land labeled ``FRTC 
Modernization Mitigation Conveyances to Churchill County'' on the map.

SEC. 505. LAND CONVEYANCE TO CITY.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 202 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), the Secretary of 
the Interior shall convey, subject to valid existing rights, for no 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the city the approximately 215 acres of land labeled ``Public 
Purpose Conveyances to City of Fallon'' on the map.
    (b) Reversion.--If the parcel of land conveyed to the city under 
subsection (a) ceases to be used consistent with the Recreation and 
Public Purposes Act (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), the parcel of land shall, 
at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United States.

                   TITLE VI--CHECKERBOARD RESOLUTION

SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Churchill County Checkerboard 
Resolution Act''.

SEC. 602. CONSOLIDATION OF CHECKERBOARD LAND OWNERSHIP.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation 
with Churchill County, Nevada, and landowners in the county, and after 
providing an opportunity for public comment, shall seek to consolidate 
Federal and non-Federal land ownership in Churchill County.
    (b) Land Exchanges.--
            (1) Land exchange authority.--To the extent practicable, 
        the Secretary of the Interior shall seek to enter into land 
        exchanges with one or more landowners whose property is 
        adjacent to public lands, whenever such an exchange will 
        consolidate land ownership and facilitate improved land 
        management.
            (2) Applicable law.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        section, land exchanges shall be conducted in accordance with 
        the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1716) and other applicable law.
            (3) Identification of public land for exchange.--Subject to 
        section 603, the Secretary of the Interior shall identify 
        public land managed by the Bureau of Reclamation and the Bureau 
        of Land Management within Churchill County to offer for 
        exchange from among lands identified as potentially suitable 
        for disposal in the applicable resource management plans.
    (c) Equal Value Land Exchanges.--
            (1) In general.--Lands to be exchanged under this section 
        shall be of equal value, based on appraisals prepared in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) the Uniform Standards for Professional Land 
                Acquisitions; and
                    (B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
                Practice.
            (2) Use of mass appraisals.--(A) The Secretary of the 
        Interior may use a mass appraisal where the Secretary estimates 
        that the land covered by the mass appraisal in Churchill 
        County--
                    (i) is of similar character and value; and
                    (ii) has a likely value that does not exceed $250 
                per acre.
            (B) The Secretary shall exclude from a mass appraisal any 
        land that has a likely value that exceeds $250 per acre.
            (C) The Secretary shall make the results of a mass 
        appraisal conducted under subparagraph (A) available to the 
        public.

SEC. 603. LANDS IDENTIFIED FOR DISPOSAL.

    (a) Identification Process.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to section 604, the Secretary 
        shall identify public land managed by the Bureau of Reclamation 
        and the Bureau of Land Management within Churchill County to 
        offer for sale from among lands identified as potentially 
        suitable for disposal in the applicable resource management 
        plans.
            (2) Consultation and public comment.--Lands shall be 
        identified under paragraph (1) in consultation with Churchill 
        County, and after providing an opportunity for public comment.
            (3) Additional county role.--At the request of Churchill 
        County, the Secretary of the Interior shall postpone or exclude 
        all or a portion of land identified for sale under this 
        section. Nothing in this section prohibits the Secretary from 
        postponing or excluding all or a portion of land identified for 
        sale under this section at the discretion of the Secretary.
            (4) Valid existing rights.--The sale of lands under this 
        section is subject to valid existing rights.
    (b) Method of Sale.--The sale of Federal land under subsection (a) 
shall be--
            (1) consistent with section 203 of the Federal Land 
        Management Policy Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1713);
            (2) unless otherwise determined by the Secretary, through a 
        competitive bidding process; and
            (3) for not less than fair market value.
    (c) Limitation.--Not more than 50,000 acres shall be sold under 
this section.

SEC. 604. MANAGEMENT PRIORITY AREAS.

    (a) In General.--Within one year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall identify Management 
Priority Areas on public lands in Churchill County that--
            (1) include greater sage grouse habitat;
            (2) are designated as critical habitat, are part of an 
        identified wildlife corridor, or contain significant wetlands 
        or riparian wildlife habitat;
            (3) are within the boundary of a national wildlife refuge, 
        national conservation area, or wilderness;
            (4) have value for outdoor recreation or provide public 
        access for recreational hunting, fishing, or other recreational 
        purposes;
            (5) contain resources that are listed on, or eligible for 
        inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places, or have 
        significant cultural, historic, ecological, or scenic value; or
            (6) are of value for improving Federal land management.
    (b) Identification of Additional Management Priority Areas.--The 
Secretary of the Interior may identify additional Management Priorities 
Areas at any time after the initial identification under subsection (a) 
is completed.
    (c) Management.--Nothing in this section changes the management of 
an area identified as a Management Priority Area based solely on that 
identification.
    (d) Management Priority Areas Excluded From Sale or Exchange.--
Federal land identified as a Management Priority Area shall be retained 
in Federal ownership and shall not be available for disposal or 
conveyance, including by sale or exchange, under this title.

SEC. 605. WITHDRAWAL.

    (a) Interim Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
mining claims for which the claim maintenance fee has been paid in the 
applicable assessment year, effective on the date on which a parcel of 
land is identified for exchange under section 602 or sale under section 
603, that land is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry and appropriation under the public 
        land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral and mineral materials leasing 
        laws.
    (b) Termination of Withdrawal.--The withdrawal of a parcel of land 
under subsection (a) shall terminate--
            (1) on the date of sale, or in the case of exchange, the 
        conveyance of title of the land covered by the exchange;
            (2) with respect to any parcel of land identified for 
        exchange under section 602 or sale under section 603 that is 
        not exchanged or sold, not later than 2 years after the date 
        the parcel of land was offered for exchange or sale under this 
        title; or
            (3) on a different date mutually agreed upon by the 
        Secretary and Churchill County.

SEC. 606. DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.

    Of the proceeds from the sale of land under section 603--
            (1) 5 percent shall be dispersed to the State of Nevada for 
        use in the general education program in the State; and
            (2) the remainder shall be deposited in a special account 
        in the Treasury of the United States, to be known as the 
        ``Churchill County Special Account'', which shall be available 
        to the Secretary of the Interior, without further 
        appropriation, for--
                    (A) reimbursement of costs incurred by the 
                Secretary in preparing for the sale or exchange of land 
                under this section; and
                    (B) the acquisition of land (including interests in 
                land) in Churchill County--
                            (i) within a wilderness or national 
                        conservation area designated under this 
                        division;
                            (ii) that protects other environmentally 
                        significant land;
                            (iii) identified as Management Priority 
                        Areas under section 804; or
                            (iv) that secures public access to Federal 
                        land for hunting, fishing, and other 
                        recreational purposes.

   DIVISION B--NORTHERN NEVADA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION

     TITLE I--DOUGLAS COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION

SEC. 101. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to promote conservation, improve 
public land, and provide for sensible development in Douglas County, 
Nevada, and for other purposes.

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Douglas County, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Douglas 
        County Economic Development and Conservation Act'' and dated 
        October 14, 2019.
            (3) Public land.--The term ``public land'' has the meaning 
        given the term ``public lands'' in section 103 of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).
            (4) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means--
                    (A) with respect to National Forest System land, 
                the Secretary of Agriculture (acting through the Chief 
                of the Forest Service); and
                    (B) with respect to land managed by the Bureau of 
                Land Management, including land held for the benefit of 
                the Tribe, the Secretary of the Interior.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
            (6) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Washoe Tribe of 
        Nevada and California.
            (7) Wilderness.--The term ``Wilderness'' means the Burbank 
        Canyons Wilderness designated by this title.

                 Subtitle A--Land Conveyances and Sales

SEC. 111. CONVEYANCE TO STATE OF NEVADA.

    (a) Conveyance.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary 
concerned shall convey to the State without consideration all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the land described 
in subsection (b).
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
the approximately 67 acres of Forest Service land generally depicted as 
``Lake Tahoe-Nevada State Park'' on the Map.
    (c) Costs.--As a condition for the conveyance under subsection (a), 
all costs associated with such conveyances shall be paid by the State.
    (d) Use of Land.--
            (1) In general.--Any land conveyed to the State under 
        subsection (a) shall be used only for--
                    (A) the conservation of wildlife or natural 
                resources; or
                    (B) a public park.
            (2) Facilities.--Any facility on the land conveyed under 
        subsection (a) shall be constructed and managed in a manner 
        consistent with the uses described in paragraph (1).
    (e) Reversion.--If any portion of the land conveyed under 
subsection (a) is used in a manner that is inconsistent with the uses 
described in subsection (d), the land shall, at the discretion of the 
Secretary concerned, revert to the United States.

SEC. 112. TAHOE RIM TRAIL.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with 
the County and other stakeholders, shall develop and implement a 
cooperative management agreement for the land described in subsection 
(b)--
            (1) to improve the quality of recreation access by 
        providing additional amenities as agreed on by the Secretary 
        and the County; and
            (2) to conserve the natural resources values.
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) 
consists of the approximately 13 acres of land generally depicted as 
``Tahoe Rim Trail North Parcel'' on the Map.

SEC. 113. CONVEYANCE TO DOUGLAS COUNTY, NEVADA.

    (a) Definition of Federal Land.--In this section, the term 
``Federal land'' means the approximately 7,777 acres of Federal land 
located in the County that is identified as ``Douglas County Land 
Conveyances'' on the Map.
    (b) Authorization of Conveyance.--Subject to valid existing rights 
and notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of section 202 
of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), 
not later than 180 days after the date on which the Secretary concerned 
receives a request from the County for the conveyance of the Federal 
land, the Secretary concerned shall convey to the County, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the Federal land.
    (c) Costs.--Any costs relating to the conveyance authorized under 
subsection (b), including any costs for surveys and other 
administrative costs, shall be paid by the County.
    (d) Use of Federal Land.--
            (1) In general.--The Federal land conveyed under subsection 
        (b)--
                    (A) may be used by the County for flood control or 
                any other public purpose consistent with the Act of 
                June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation and 
                Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.); and
                    (B) shall not be disposed of by the County.
            (2) Reversion.--If the Federal land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) is used in a manner inconsistent with paragraph 
        (1), the Federal land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary 
        concerned, revert to the United States.
    (e) Acquisition of Federal Reversionary Interest.--
            (1) Request.--The County may submit to the Secretary 
        concerned a request to acquire the Federal reversionary 
        interest in all or any portion of the Federal land conveyed 
        under this section.
            (2) Appraisal.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of receipt of a request under paragraph (1), the 
                Secretary concerned shall complete an appraisal of the 
                Federal reversionary interest in the Federal land 
                requested by the County.
                    (B) Requirement.--The appraisal under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be completed in accordance with--
                            (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                        Federal Land Acquisitions; and
                            (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                        Appraisal Practice.
            (3) Conveyance required.--
                    (A) In general.--If, by the date that is 1 year 
                after the date of completion of the appraisal under 
                paragraph (2), the County submits to the Secretary 
                concerned an offer to acquire the Federal reversionary 
                interest requested under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
                concerned, by not later than the date that is 30 days 
                after the date on which the offer is submitted, shall 
                convey to the County that reversionary interest.
                    (B) Consideration.--As consideration for the 
                conveyance of the Federal reversionary interest under 
                subparagraph (A), the County shall pay to the Secretary 
                concerned an amount equal to the appraised value of the 
                Federal reversionary interest, as determined under 
                paragraph (2).
                    (C) Costs of conveyance.--Any costs relating to the 
                conveyance under subparagraph (A), including any costs 
                for surveys and other administrative costs, shall be 
                paid by the Secretary concerned.
            (4) Disposition of proceeds.--Any amounts collected under 
        this subsection shall be disposed of in accordance with section 
        114(i).
    (f) Revocation of Orders.--Any public land order that withdraws any 
of the land described in subsection (a) from appropriation or disposal 
under a public land law shall be revoked to the extent necessary to 
permit disposal of that land.

SEC. 114. SALE OF CERTAIN FEDERAL LAND.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding sections 202 and 203 of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), 
the Secretary concerned shall, in accordance with the other provisions 
of that Act and any other applicable law, and subject to valid existing 
rights, conduct one or more sales of the Federal land including mineral 
rights described in subsection (b) to qualified bidders.
    (b) Description of Land.--The Federal land referred to in 
subsection (a) consists of--
            (1) the approximately 59.5 acres of public land generally 
        depicted as ``Lands for Disposal'' on the Map; and
            (2) not more than 10,000 acres of land in the County that--
                    (A) is not segregated or withdrawn on or after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, unless the land is 
                withdrawn in accordance with subsection (g); and
                    (B) is identified for disposal by the Secretary 
                concerned through--
                            (i) the Carson City Consolidated Resource 
                        Management Plan; or
                            (ii) any subsequent amendment to the 
                        management plan that is undertaken with full 
                        public involvement.
    (c) Joint Selection Required.--The Secretary concerned and the 
County shall jointly select which parcels of the Federal land described 
in subsection (b)(2) to offer for sale under subsection (a).
    (d) Compliance With Local Planning and Zoning Laws.--Before 
carrying out a sale of Federal land under subsection (a), the County 
shall submit to the Secretary concerned a certification that qualified 
bidders have agreed to comply with--
            (1) County zoning ordinances; and
            (2) any master plan for the area approved by the County.
    (e) Method of Sale.--The sale of Federal land under subsection (a) 
shall be--
            (1) sold through a competitive bidding process, unless 
        otherwise determined by the Secretary concerned; and
            (2) for not less than fair market value.
    (f) Recreation and Public Purposes Act Conveyances.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days before any land 
        described in subsection (b) is offered for sale under 
        subsection (a), the State or County may elect to obtain the 
        land for public purposes in accordance with the Act of June 14, 
        1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes 
        Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
            (2) Retention.--Pursuant to an election made under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned shall retain the elected 
        land for conveyance to the State or County in accordance with 
        the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation 
        and Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
    (g) Withdrawal.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
        except as provided in paragraph (2), the Federal land described 
        in subsection (b) is withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) disposition under all laws relating to mineral 
                and geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
            (2) Termination.--The withdrawal under paragraph (1) shall 
        be terminated--
                    (A) on the date of sale or conveyance of title to 
                the land including mineral rights described in 
                subsection (b) pursuant to this title; or
                    (B) with respect to any land described in 
                subsection (b) that is not sold or exchanged, not later 
                than 1 year after the date on which the land was 
                offered for sale under this title.
            (3) Exception.--Paragraph (1)(A) shall not apply to a sale 
        made consistent with this section or an election by the County 
        or the State to obtain the land described in subsection (b) for 
        public purposes under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known 
        as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 
        et seq.).
    (h) Deadline for Sale.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), not 
        later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
        if there is a qualified bidder for the land described in 
        subsection (b), the Secretary concerned shall offer the land 
        for sale to the qualified bidder.
            (2) Postponement; exclusion from sale.--At the request of 
        the County, the Secretary concerned may temporarily postpone or 
        exclude from the sale under paragraph (1) all or a portion of 
        the land described in subsection (b).
    (i) Disposition of Proceeds.--Of the proceeds from the sale under 
this section--
            (1) 5 percent shall be disbursed to the State for use by 
        the State for general education programs of the State;
            (2) 10 percent shall be disbursed to the County for use by 
        the County for general budgeting purposes;
            (3) 85 percent shall be deposited in a special account in 
        the Treasury of the United States, to be known as the ``Douglas 
        County Special Account'', which shall be available to the 
        Secretary concerned until expended, without further 
        appropriation--
                    (A) to reimburse costs incurred by the Secretary 
                concerned in preparing for the sale of the land 
                described in subsection (b), including--
                            (i) the costs of surveys and appraisals; 
                        and
                            (ii) the costs of compliance with the 
                        National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
                        U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and sections 202 and 203 
                        of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
                        of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713);
                    (B) to reimburse costs incurred by the Bureau of 
                Land Management and the Forest Service in preparing for 
                and carrying out the transfers of land to be held in 
                trust by the United States under title II; and
                    (C) to acquire environmentally sensitive land or an 
                interest in environmentally sensitive land in the 
                County--
                            (i) pursuant to the Douglas County Open 
                        Space and Agricultural Lands Preservation 
                        Implementation Plan, or any subsequent 
                        amendment to the plan that is undertaken with 
                        full public involvement; and
                            (ii) for flood control purposes.
    (j) Revocation of Orders.--Any public land order that withdraws any 
of the land described in subsection (b) from appropriation or disposal 
under a public land law shall be revoked to the extent necessary to 
permit disposal of that land.

SEC. 115. OPEN SPACE RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Authorization of Conveyance.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date on which the Secretary of Agriculture receives a request from the 
County, the Secretary shall convey to the County, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the Federal land to be used for recreation and any other public 
purpose consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the 
``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) 
consists of approximately 1,084 acres of land as depicted as ``Open 
Space Recreation Area'' on the Map.
    (c) Costs.--Any costs relating to the conveyance authorized under 
subsection (b), including any costs for surveys and other 
administrative costs, shall be paid by the County.
    (d) Use of Federal Land.--The Federal land conveyed under 
subsection (a) shall not be disposed of by the County.

                 Subtitle B--Tribal Cultural Resources

SEC. 121. TRANSFER OF LAND TO BE HELD IN TRUST FOR TRIBE.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the land described 
in subsection (b)--
            (1) shall be held in trust by the United States for the 
        benefit of the Tribe; and
            (2) shall be part of the reservation of the Tribe.
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) 
consists of--
            (1) approximately 2,669 acres of Federal land generally 
        depicted as ``Washoe Tribe Conveyances'' on the Map; and
            (2) any land administered on the date of the enactment of 
        this Act by the Bureau of Land Management or the Forest Service 
        and generally depicted as ``Section 5 lands''.
    (c) Survey.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall complete a survey 
of the boundary lines to establish the boundaries of the land taken 
into trust under subsection (a).
    (d) Use of Trust Land.--
            (1) Gaming.--Land taken into trust under this section shall 
        not be eligible, or considered to have been taken into trust, 
        for class II gaming or class III gaming (as defined in section 
        4 of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2703)).
            (2) Thinning; landscape restoration.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary concerned, in 
                consultation and coordination with the Tribe, may carry 
                out any fuel reduction and other landscape restoration 
                activities on the land taken into trust under 
                subsection (a) (including land that includes threatened 
                and endangered species habitat), that are beneficial 
                to--
                            (i) the Tribe; and
                            (ii)(I) the Bureau of Land Management; or
                            (II) the Forest Service.
                    (B) Conservation benefits.--Activities carried out 
                under subparagraph (A) include activities that provide 
                conservation benefits to a species--
                            (i) that is not listed as endangered or 
                        threatened under section 4(c) of the Endangered 
                        Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(c)); but
                            (ii) is--
                                    (I) listed by a State as a 
                                threatened or endangered species;
                                    (II) a species of concern; or
                                    (III) a candidate for a listing as 
                                an endangered or threatened species 
                                under the Endangered Species Act of 
                                1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
    (e) Water Rights.--Nothing in this section affects the allocation, 
ownership, interest, or control, as in existence on the date of the 
enactment of this Act, of any water, water right, or any other valid 
existing right held by the United States, an Indian tribe, a State, or 
a person.

    Subtitle C--Resolution of Burbank Canyons Wilderness Study Area

SEC. 131. ADDITION TO NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the approximately 12,392 acres of Federal 
land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted on 
the map as ``Burbank Canyons Wilderness'' is designated as wilderness 
and as a component of the National Wilderness Preservation System, to 
be known as the ``Burbank Canyons Wilderness''.
    (b) Boundary.--The boundary of any portion of the Wilderness that 
is bordered by a road shall be at least 100 feet from the centerline of 
the road to allow public access.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall 
        prepare a map and legal description of the Wilderness.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary concerned may 
        correct any minor error in the map or legal description.
            (3) Availability.--A copy of the map and legal description 
        prepared under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of 
        Land Management.
    (d) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Wilderness 
is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws relating to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.

SEC. 132. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Wilderness 
shall be administered by the Secretary concerned in accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in that Act to the effective date shall 
        be considered to be a reference to the date of the enactment of 
        this Act; and
            (2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        Secretary of the Interior.
    (b) Livestock.--The grazing of livestock in the Wilderness, if 
established before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall be 
allowed to continue, subject to such reasonable regulations, policies, 
and practices as the Secretary concerned considers to be necessary in 
accordance with--
            (1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4)); and
            (2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the report of 
        the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress 
        (House Report 101-405).
    (c) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land or 
interest in land within the boundaries of the Wilderness that is 
acquired by the United States after the date of the enactment of this 
Act shall be added to and administered as part of the Wilderness.
    (d) Adjacent Management.--
            (1) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
        designation of the Wilderness to create a protective perimeter 
        or buffer zone around the Wilderness.
            (2) Nonwilderness activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
        activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within the 
        Wilderness shall not preclude the conduct of the activities or 
        uses outside the boundary of the Wilderness.
    (e) Military Overflights.--Nothing in this title restricts or 
precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        Wilderness, including military overflights that can be seen or 
        heard within the wilderness area;
            (2) flight testing and evaluation; or
            (3) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace, or the establishment of military flight training 
        routes, over the Wilderness.
    (f) Existing Airstrips.--Nothing in this title restricts or 
precludes low-level overflights by aircraft utilizing airstrips in 
existence on the date of the enactment of this Act that are located 
within 5 miles of the proposed boundary of the Wilderness.
    (g) Wildfire, Insect, and Disease Management.--In accordance with 
section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the 
Secretary concerned may take any measures in the Wilderness that the 
Secretary concerned determines to be necessary for the control of fire, 
insects, and diseases, including, as the Secretary concerned determines 
to be appropriate, the coordination of the activities with the State or 
a local agency.
    (h) Data Collection.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to such terms and conditions as the 
Secretary concerned may prescribe, the Secretary concerned may 
authorize the installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, 
or climatological collection devices in the Wilderness if the Secretary 
concerned determines that the facilities and access to the facilities 
are essential to flood warning, flood control, or water reservoir 
operation activities.
    (i) Water Rights.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) the Wilderness is located--
                            (i) in the semiarid region of the Great 
                        Basin; and
                            (ii) at the headwaters for the streams and 
                        rivers on land with respect to which there are 
                        few, if any--
                                    (I) actual or proposed water 
                                resource facilities located upstream; 
                                and
                                    (II) opportunities for diversion, 
                                storage, or other uses of water 
                                occurring outside the land that would 
                                adversely affect the wilderness values 
                                of the land;
                    (B) the Wilderness is generally not suitable for 
                use or development of new water resource facilities; 
                and
                    (C) because of the unique nature of the Wilderness, 
                it is possible to provide for proper management and 
                protection of the wilderness and other values of land 
                by means different from the means used in other laws.
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to protect the 
        wilderness values of the Wilderness by means other than a 
        federally reserved water right.
            (3) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) constitutes an express or implied reservation 
                by the United States of any water or water rights with 
                respect to the Wilderness;
                    (B) affects any water rights in the State 
                (including any water rights held by the United States) 
                in existence on the date of the enactment of this Act;
                    (C) establishes a precedent with regard to any 
                future wilderness designations;
                    (D) affects the interpretation of, or any 
                designation made under, any other Act; or
                    (E) limits, alters, modifies, or amends any 
                interstate compact or equitable apportionment decree 
                that apportions water among and between the State and 
                other States.
            (4) Nevada water law.--The Secretary concerned shall follow 
        the procedural and substantive requirements of State law in 
        order to obtain and hold any water rights not in existence on 
        the date of the enactment of this Act with respect to the 
        Wilderness.
            (5) New projects.--
                    (A) Definition of water resource facility.--
                            (i) In general.--In this paragraph, the 
                        term ``water resource facility'' means 
                        irrigation and pumping facilities, reservoirs, 
                        water conservation works, aqueducts, canals, 
                        ditches, pipelines, wells, hydropower projects, 
                        transmission and other ancillary facilities, 
                        and other water diversion, storage, and 
                        carriage structures.
                            (ii) Exclusion.--In this paragraph, the 
                        term ``water resource facility'' does not 
                        include wildlife guzzlers.
                    (B) Restriction on new water resource facilities.--
                Except as otherwise provided in this title, on or after 
                the date of the enactment of this Act, neither the 
                President nor any other officer, employee, or agent of 
                the United States shall fund, assist, authorize, or 
                issue a license or permit for the development of any 
                new water resource facility within any wilderness area, 
                including a portion of a wilderness area, that is 
                located in the County.

SEC. 133. FISH AND WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title affects or 
diminishes the jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and 
wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, fishing, and 
trapping, in the Wilderness.
    (b) Management Activities.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the 
Secretary concerned may conduct any management activities in the 
Wilderness that are necessary to maintain or restore fish and wildlife 
populations and the habitats to support the populations, if the 
activities are carried out--
            (1) in a manner that is consistent with relevant wilderness 
        management plans; and
            (2) in accordance with--
                    (A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); 
                and
                    (B) appropriate policies, such as those set forth 
                in Appendix B of the report of the Committee on 
                Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st 
                Congress (House Report 101-405), including the 
                occasional and temporary use of motorized vehicles and 
                aircraft if the use, as determined by the Secretary 
                concerned, would promote healthy, viable, and more 
                naturally distributed wildlife populations that would 
                enhance wilderness values with the minimal impact 
                necessary to reasonably accomplish those tasks.
    (c) Existing Activities.--Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and in accordance with 
appropriate policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of the 
report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress (House 
Report 101-405), the State may continue to use aircraft, including 
helicopters, to survey, capture, trans- plant, monitor, and provide 
water for wildlife populations in the Wilderness.
    (d) Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary concerned may designate 
        areas in which, and establish periods during which, for reasons 
        of public safety, administration, or compliance with applicable 
        laws, no hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the 
        Wilderness.
            (2) Consultation.--Except in emergencies, the Secretary 
        concerned shall consult with the appropriate State agency and 
        notify the public before making any designation under paragraph 
        (1).
    (e) Cooperative Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--The State (including a designee of the 
        State) may conduct wildlife management activities in the 
        Wilderness--
                    (A) in accordance with the terms and conditions 
                specified in the cooperative agreement between the 
                Secretary of the Interior and the State entitled 
                ``Memorandum of Understanding between the Bureau of 
                Land Management and the Nevada Department of Wildlife 
                Supplement No. 9'' and signed November and December 
                2003, including any amendments to the cooperative 
                agreement agreed to by the Secretary of the Interior 
                and the State; and
                    (B) subject to all applicable laws (including 
                regulations).
            (2) References; clark county.--For the purposes of this 
        subsection, any reference to Clark County in the cooperative 
        agreement described in paragraph (1)(A) shall be considered to 
        be a reference to the Wilderness.

SEC. 134. RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREA.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of section 
603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1782(c)), the approximately 1,065 acres of public land in the Burbank 
Canyons Wilderness study area not designated as wilderness by this 
title has been adequately studied for wilderness designation.
    (b) Release.--Any public land described in subsection (a) that is 
not designated as wilderness by this title--
            (1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); or
            (2) shall be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) land management plans adopted under section 202 
                of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
                (43 U.S.C. 1712); and
                    (B) cooperative conservation agreements in 
                existence on the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 135. NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS USES.

    Nothing in this title alters or diminishes the treaty rights of any 
Indian tribe (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b)).

Subtitle D--Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction Over Forest Service 
                                  Land

SEC. 141. AUTHORITY OF FOREST SERVICE TO TRANSFER ADMINISTRATIVE 
              JURISDICTION TO STATE OR COUNTY FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES.

    (a) In General.--Consistent with section 3(b) of Public Law 96-586 
(commonly known as the ``Santini-Burton Act'') (94 Stat. 3384), and 
subject to valid existing rights, on receipt of a request by the State 
or County and subject to such terms and conditions as are satisfactory 
to the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary may transfer the Forest 
Service land or interests in Forest Service land described in 
subsection (b) to the State or County, without consideration, to 
protect the environmental quality and public recreational use of the 
transferred Forest Service land.
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
any Forest Service land that is located within the boundaries of the 
area acquired under Public Law 96-586 (commonly known as the ``Santini-
Burton Act'') (94 Stat. 3381) that is--
            (1) unsuitable for Forest Service Administration; or
            (2) necessary for a public purpose.
    (c) Use of Land.--A parcel of land conveyed pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall--
            (1) be managed by the State or County, as applicable--
                    (A) to maintain undeveloped open space and to 
                preserve the natural characteristics of the transferred 
                land in perpetuity; and
                    (B) to protect and enhance water quality, stream 
                environment zones, and important wildlife habitat; and
            (2) be used by the State or County, as applicable, for 
        recreation or other public purposes including trails, 
        trailheads, fuel reduction, flood control and other 
        infrastructure consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 (43 
        U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
    (d) Reversion.--If a parcel of land transferred under subsection 
(a) is used in a manner that is inconsistent with subsection (c), the 
parcel of land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, revert to the United States.

SEC. 142. SPECIAL USE PERMITS FOR RECREATION AND PUBLIC PURPOSES.

    (a) Issuance of Special Use Permits.--Not later than one year after 
the date on which the Secretary of Agriculture receives an application 
from the County or unit of local government for the use of the Federal 
land outlined in subsection (b), the Secretary, in accordance with all 
applicable laws shall--
            (1) issue to the County a special use permit for recreation 
        and public purposes; and
            (2) authorize a permit length up to 30 years or longer for 
        the use of those lands.
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referenced in subsection (a) 
applies to approximately 188 acres of Federal land located in the 
County that is identified as ``Directed Special Use Permit'' on the 
Map.

               TITLE II--INCLINE VILLAGE FIRE PROTECTION

SEC. 201. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to improve hazardous fuels management 
and enhance public recreation through the conveyance of Federal land to 
Incline Village General Improvement District in Nevada for public 
purposes.

SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (2) District.--The term ``District'' means the Incline 
        Village General Improvement District in the State of Nevada.

SEC. 203. LAND CONVEYANCES FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES.

    (a) Authorization of Conveyance.--In consideration of the District 
assuming from the United States all liability for administration, care 
and maintenance, within 180 days after the effective date of this 
title, the Secretary shall convey to the District without consideration 
all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
parcels of Federal land described in subsection (b) for public uses 
including fire risk reduction activities, public recreation and any 
other public purpose.
    (b) Description of Federal Land.--The Federal land referred to in 
subsection (a) is depicted on the map entitled ``Incline Village Fire 
Protection Act Map'' and dated May 2019.
    (c) Costs.--Any costs relating to the conveyance authorized under 
subsection (c), including any costs for surveys and other 
administrative costs, shall be paid by the District.
    (d) Reversion.--If the land conveyed under subsection (a) is used 
in a manner inconsistent with subsection (a), the Federal land shall, 
at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United States.

       TITLE III--NORTHERN NEVADA FLOOD PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT

SEC. 301. PURPOSE.

    This purpose of this title is to convey certain Federal land along 
the Truckee River in Nevada to the Truckee River Flood Management 
Authority for the purpose of environmental restoration and flood 
control management.

SEC. 302. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, including the Bureau of Land Management and 
        the Bureau of Reclamation.
            (2) TRFMA.--The term ``TRFMA'' means the Truckee River 
        Flood Management Authority in the State of Nevada.

SEC. 303. LAND CONVEYANCES FOR FLOOD PROTECTION.

    (a) Authorization of Conveyance.--The Secretary shall convey to the 
Truckee River Flood Management Authority without consideration all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the parcels 
of Federal land described in subsection (b) for the purposes of flood 
attenuation, riparian restoration, and protection along the Truckee 
River in Nevada. Upon conveyance, TRFMA will coordinate with Storey 
County, as needed, in order to provide easements for access and use to 
necessary infrastructure located immediately south of the Truckee River 
and Interstate 80.
    (b) Description of Federal Land.--The Federal land referred to in 
subsection (a) is depicted as ``flood control conveyances'' on the map 
entitled ``Northern Nevada Flood Protection Management Land Conveyance 
Map'' and dated May 2019.
    (c) Costs.--Any costs relating to the conveyance authorized under 
subsection (c), including any costs for surveys and other 
administrative costs, shall be paid by the TRFMA.
    (d) Reversion.--If the land conveyed under subsection (a) is used 
in a manner inconsistent with subsection (a), the Federal land shall, 
at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United States.

        TITLE IV--LANDER COUNTY LAND MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION

SEC. 401. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Lander County, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Lander 
        County Land Management and Conservation Act'' and dated 
        February, 2020.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) Secretary of agriculture.--The term ``Secretary of 
        Agriculture'' means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting 
        through the Chief of the Forest Service.

SEC. 402. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Wildland fires pose threats to public and private 
        natural resources in Lander County and expanding and improving 
        the airports in Lander County to include available adjacent 
        lands would support fire-fighting capabilities.
            (2) The protection, development and use of water resources 
        in Lander County play a key role in the major economic activity 
        for the County including developments, mining, agriculture, 
        tourism, recreational activity, and conservation.
            (3) Recreational and public park opportunities in Lander 
        County could be substantially enhanced through expansion of the 
        County park system.

SEC. 403. CONVEYANCE TO LANDER COUNTY, NEVADA.

    (a) Watershed Protection, Recreation, and Parks.--Notwithstanding 
sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), no later than 60 days after lands are 
identified by the County, the Secretary and Secretary of Agriculture 
shall convey to the County, subject to valid existing rights, for no 
consideration, all right, title, and interest, including mineral 
rights, of the United States in and to the parcels of Federal land 
described on the map identified as lands for watershed protection, 
recreation, and parks.
    (b) Airport Facility.--Notwithstanding the land use planning 
requirements contained in sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712 and 1713), the 
Secretary shall convey to the County, subject to valid existing rights, 
for no consideration, all right, title, and interest, including mineral 
rights, of the United States in and to the parcels of Federal land on 
the map entitled ``Lander County, Nevada-Airport Selections'' for the 
purpose of improving airport facility and related infrastructure.
    (c) Costs.--Only survey costs relating to any conveyance under 
subsection (b) shall be paid by the County.

SEC. 404. SURVEY.

    The exact acreage and legal description of the Federal land to be 
conveyed under this title shall be determined by a survey satisfactory 
to the Secretary and the County.

SEC. 405. MAPS, ESTIMATES, DESCRIPTIONS.

    (a) Minor Errors.--The Secretary, the Secretary of Agriculture, and 
the County may, by mutual agreement--
            (1) make minor boundary adjustments to the Federal lands 
        involved in the conveyance; and
            (2) correct any minor errors in any map, acreage estimate, 
        or description of any land to be conveyed.
    (b) Conflict.--If there is a conflict between a map, an acreage 
estimate, or a description of land under this title, the map shall 
control unless the Secretary, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the 
County mutually agree otherwise.
    (c) Availability.--The Secretary shall file and make available for 
public inspection in the Nevada headquarters of the Bureau of Land 
Management and Battle Mountain Field Office copies of all maps referred 
to in this title.

SEC. 406. REVERSION.

    A conveyance under this title shall include a reversionary clause 
to ensure that management of the land described in that subsection 
shall revert to the Secretary if the land is no longer being managed in 
accordance with the purposes identified in section 403 of this title.

                   TITLE V--RUBY MOUNTAINS PROTECTION

SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Ruby Mountains Protection Act''.

SEC. 502. WITHDRAWAL OF CERTAIN NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM LAND.

    (a) Definition of Map.--In this section, the term ``Map'' means the 
Forest Service map entitled ``S. 258 Ruby Mountains Protective Act'' 
and dated December 5, 2019.
    (b) Prohibition.--Subject to valid existing rights in existence on 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior 
and the Secretary of Agriculture shall not issue under any law, 
including the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.), an oil or 
gas lease within the area depicted on the Map as ``National Forest 
System Lands''.
    (c) Application.--Any land or interest in land within the boundary 
of the Ruby Mountains subdistrict of the Humboldt-Toiyabe National 
Forest that is acquired by the United States after the date of the 
enactment of this Act shall be withdrawn in accordance with subsection 
(b).
    (d) Availability of Map.--The Map shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest Service.

             TITLE VI--CARSON CITY PUBLIC LANDS CORRECTION

SEC. 601. DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
            (1) the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to land in 
        the National Forest System; and
            (2) the Secretary of the Interior with respect to other 
        Federal land.
    (b) City.--The term ``City'' means Carson City, Nevada.
    (c) Carson City Federal Land Collaboration Committee.--The term 
``Carson City Federal Land Collaboration Committee'' means a committee 
comprised of--
            (1) the City Manager;
            (2) a designee of the City Manager; and
            (3) not more than 3 members appointed by the Carson City 
        Board of Supervisors to represent areas of Carson City's 
        government, including the Parks, Recreation, and Open Space 
        Department, the Community Development Department, Property 
        Management.

SEC. 602. LAND CONVEYANCES.

    (a) Conveyance.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of section 202 of 
the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), 
the Secretary shall convey to the City, without consideration, all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the land 
described in subsection (b).
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
the approximately 258 acres depicted as ``Lands to Acquire'' on the map 
entitled ``Carson City OPLMA Lands'' and dated 2018.
    (c) Costs.--Any costs relating to the conveyance under subsection 
(a), including costs of surveys and administrative costs, shall be paid 
by the City and are eligible for reimbursement under the account as 
described in section 606(a).
    (d) Sale or Lease of Land to Third Parties.--The City may enter 
into an agreement to sell, lease, or otherwise convey all or part of 
the land described in subsection (b).
    (e) Conditions.--The City shall sell the land at fair market value, 
and proceeds will be deposited in the account as described in section 
606(a).

SEC. 603. CARSON CITY STREET CONNECTOR CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Authorization of Conveyance.--The Secretary concerned shall 
convey to Carson City without consideration all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the parcels of Federal land 
described in subsection (b) for expansion of roadway.
    (b) Description of Federal Land.--The Federal land referred to in 
subsection (a) is depicted as ``Proposed Land Transfer'' on the map 
entitled ``Carson City OPLMA Lands'' and dated February 28, 2019.
    (c) Costs.--Any costs relating to the conveyance authorized under 
subsection (a), including any costs for surveys and other 
administrative costs, shall be paid by the city.
    (d) Reversion.--If the land conveyed under subsection (a) is used 
in a manner inconsistent with subsection (a), the Federal land shall, 
at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United States.

SEC. 604. AMENDMENT TO REVERSIONARY INTERESTS.

    (a) Sale or Lease of Land to Third Parties.--Section 2601(b)(4) of 
Public Law 111-11 (123 Stat. 1111) is amended by inserting after 
subparagraph (D), the following:
                    ``(E) Sale or lease of land to third parties.--The 
                City may enter into an agreement to sell, lease, or 
                otherwise convey all or part of the land described in 
                subparagraph (D) to third parties for public 
                purposes.''.
    (b) Conditions.--The sale of any land under subsection (a) shall be 
for not less than fair market value.

SEC. 605. DISPOSAL OF FEDERAL LAND.

    (a) Disposal.--Subject to valid existing rights and notwithstanding 
the land use planning requirements of section 202 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), the Secretary shall 
dispose of the land described in subsection (b).
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
the approximately 28 acres depicted as ``Lands for BLM Disposal'' on 
the map entitled ``Carson City OPLMA Lands'' and dated 2018.
    (c) Costs.--Any costs relating to the disposal under subsection 
(a), including costs of surveys and administrative costs, shall be paid 
by the party entering into the disposal agreement with the Bureau of 
Land Management for the land described in subsection (b).
    (d) Conditions.--Upon disposal, the City shall retain--
            (1) a public utility easement concurrent with Koontz Lane 
        and Conti Drive, which provides waterlines and access to the 
        water tank immediately east of the subject parcels; and
            (2) an existing drainage easement for a future detention 
        basin located on APN 010-152-06 depicted as ``Lands for BLM 
        Disposal'' on the map entitled ``Carson City OPLMA Lands'' and 
        dated 2018.

SEC. 606. TRANSFER OF LAND TO THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Conveyance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the City shall convey all right and title of the 
land described in subsection (b) to the Secretary of the Interior.
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
the approximately 17 acres depicted as ``Lands for Disposal'' on the 
map entitled ``Carson City OPLMA Lands'' and dated 2018.
    (c) Disposal.--Subject to valid existing rights and notwithstanding 
the land use planning requirements of section 202 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), the Secretary shall 
dispose of the land described in subsection (b).
    (d) Costs.--
            (1) Costs related to disposal.--Any costs relating to the 
        disposal under subsection (c), including costs of surveys and 
        administrative costs, shall be paid by the party entering into 
        the disposal agreement with the Bureau of Land Management for 
        the land described in subsection (b).
            (2) Costs related to conveyance.--Any costs relating to the 
        conveyance under subsection (a), including costs of surveys and 
        administrative costs, shall be paid by the City and is eligible 
        for reimbursement through the account as described in section 
        606(a).
    (e) Conditions.--Upon disposal, the City shall retain--
            (1) access and a public utility easement on APN 010-252-02 
        for operation and maintenance of a municipal well; and
            (2) a public right-of-way for Bennet Avenue.

SEC. 607. DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.

    (a) Disposition of Proceeds.--The proceeds from the sale of land 
under sections 602, 603, 604, and 605 of this title, and section 
2601(e)(1)(B) of Public Law 111-11 (123 Stat. 1111(e)(1)(B)) shall be 
deposited in a special account in the Treasury of the United States, to 
be known as the ``Carson City Special Account'', which shall be 
available to the Secretary in collaboration with and if approved in 
writing by the Carson City Federal Land Collaboration Committee, for--
            (1) the reimbursement of costs incurred by the Secretary in 
        preparing for the sale of the land described in sections 602, 
        604, and 605 of this title, and section 2601(e)(1)(B) of Public 
        Law 111-11 (123 Stat. 1111(e)(1)(B)), including--
                    (A) the costs of surveys and appraisals; and
                    (B) the costs of compliance with the National 
                Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                seq.) and sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 
                1713);
            (2) the reimbursement of costs incurred as described in 
        paragraphs (3) through (8) by the City for lands under sections 
        602, 603, 604, and 605, and section 2601(d) of Public Law 111-
        11 (123 Stat. 1111(d));
            (3) the conduct of wildlife habitat conservation and 
        restoration projects, including projects that benefit the 
        greater sage-grouse in the City;
            (4) the development and implementation of comprehensive, 
        cost-effective, multijurisdictional hazardous fuels reduction 
        and wildfire prevention and restoration projects in the City;
            (5) the acquisition of environmentally sensitive land or 
        interest in environmentally sensitive land in Carson City, 
        Nevada;
            (6) wilderness protection and processing wilderness 
        designation, including the costs of appropriate fencing, 
        signage, public education, and enforcement for the wilderness 
        areas designated through this title;
            (7) capital improvements administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management and the Forest Service in the City; and
            (8) educational purposes specific to the City.
    (b) Investment of Special Account.--Amounts deposited into the 
Carson City Special Account--
            (1) shall earn interest in an amount determined by the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, based on the current average market 
        yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United 
        States of comparable maturities; and
            (2) may be expended by the Secretary in accordance with 
        this section.
    (c) Management of Special Account.--The management and procedures 
thereof of the Carson City Special Account shall be determined by an 
intergovernmental agreement between the City and the Department of the 
Interior's Bureau of Land Management, Carson City office.

SEC. 608. POSTPONEMENT; EXCLUSION FROM SALE.

    Section 2601(d)(6) of Public Law 111-11 (123 Stat. 1113) is amended 
to read as follows:
            ``(6) Deadline for sale.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        date of the enactment of Northern Nevada Economic Development 
        and Conservation Act of 2020, if there is a qualified bidder 
        for the land described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
        paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Interior shall offer the 
        land for sale to the qualified bidder.''.

    TITLE VII--PERSHING COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION

SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Pershing County Economic 
Development and Conservation Act''.

SEC. 702. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Pershing County, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
            (4) Wilderness area.--The term ``wilderness area'' means a 
        wilderness area designated by section 721(a).

                Subtitle A--Checkerboard Land Resolution

SEC. 711. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) since the passage of the Act of July 1, 1862 (12 Stat. 
        489, chapter 120) (commonly known as the ``Pacific Railway Act 
        of 1862''), under which railroad land grants along the Union 
        Pacific Railroad right-of-way created a checkerboard land 
        pattern of alternating public land and privately owned land, 
        management of the land in the checkerboard area has been a 
        constant source of frustration for the County government, 
        private landholders in the County, and the Federal Government;
            (2) management of Federal land in the checkerboard area has 
        been costly and difficult for the Federal land management 
        agencies, creating a disincentive to manage the land 
        effectively;
            (3) parcels of land within the checkerboard area in the 
        County will not vary significantly in appraised value by acre 
        due to the similarity of highest and best use in the County; 
        and
            (4) consolidation of appropriate land within the 
        checkerboard area through sales and exchanges for development 
        and Federal management will--
                    (A) help improve the tax base of the County; and
                    (B) simplify management for the Federal Government.

SEC. 712. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Eligible land.--The term ``eligible land'' means any 
        land administered by the Director of the Bureau of Land 
        Management--
                    (A) that is within the area identified on the Map 
                as ``Checkerboard Lands Resolution Area'' that is 
                designated for disposal by the Secretary through--
                            (i) the Winnemucca Consolidated Resource 
                        Management Plan; or
                            (ii) any subsequent amendment or revision 
                        to the management plan that is undertaken with 
                        full public involvement; and
                    (B) that is not encumbered land.
            (2) Encumbered land.--The term ``encumbered land'' means 
        any land administered by the Director of the Bureau of Land 
        Management within the area identified on the Map as 
        ``Checkerboard Lands Resolution Area'' that is encumbered by 
        mining claims, millsites, or tunnel sites.
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map prepared under 
        section 713(b)(1).
            (4) Qualified entity.--The term ``qualified entity'' means, 
        with respect to a portion of encumbered land--
                    (A) the owner of a mining claim, millsite, or 
                tunnel site located on a portion of the encumbered land 
                on the date of the enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) a successor in interest of an owner described 
                in subparagraph (A).

SEC. 713. SALE OR EXCHANGE OF ELIGIBLE LAND.

    (a) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding sections 202, 
203, 206, and 209 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
(43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713, 1716, 1719), as soon as practicable after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in accordance with 
this title and any other applicable law and subject to valid existing 
rights, shall conduct sales or exchanges of the eligible land.
    (b) Map.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a map 
        that depicts the boundaries of the land identified for disposal 
        under this title, to be identified as the ``Checkerboard Lands 
        Resolution Area'' on the Map.
            (2) Minor corrections.--The Secretary, in consultation with 
        the County, may correct minor errors in the Map.
    (c) Joint Selection Required.--After providing public notice, the 
Secretary and the County shall jointly select parcels of eligible land 
to be offered for sale or exchange under subsection (a).
    (d) Method of Sale.--A sale of eligible land under subsection (a) 
shall be--
            (1) consistent with subsections (d) and (f) of section 203 
        of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1713);
            (2) conducted through a competitive bidding process, under 
        which adjoining landowners are offered the first option, unless 
        the Secretary determines there are suitable and qualified 
        buyers that are not adjoining landowners; and
            (3) for not less than fair market value, based on an 
        appraisal in accordance with the Uniform Standards of 
        Professional Appraisal Practice and this title.
    (e) Land Exchanges.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act and subject to the joint selection 
        requirements under subsection (c), the Secretary shall offer to 
        exchange all eligible land under this section for private land.
            (2) Adjacent land.--To the extent practicable, the 
        Secretary shall seek to enter into agreements with one or more 
        owners of private land adjacent to the eligible land for the 
        exchange of the private land for the eligible land, if the 
        Secretary determines that the exchange would consolidate 
        Federal land ownership and facilitate improved Federal land 
        management.
            (3) Priority land exchanges.--In acquiring private land 
        under this subsection, the Secretary shall give priority to the 
        acquisition of private land in higher-value natural resource 
        areas in the County.
    (f) Mass Appraisals.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and every 5 years thereafter, the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) conduct a mass appraisal of eligible land to be 
                sold or exchanged under this section;
                    (B) prepare an evaluation analysis for each land 
                transaction under this section; and
                    (C) make available to the public the results of the 
                mass appraisals conducted under subparagraph (A).
            (2) Use.--The Secretary may use mass appraisals and 
        evaluation analyses conducted under paragraph (1) to facilitate 
        exchanges of eligible land for private land.
    (g) Deadline for Sale or Exchange; Exclusions.--
            (1) Deadline.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which the eligible land is jointly selected under subsection 
        (c), the Secretary shall offer for sale or exchange the parcels 
        of eligible land jointly selected under that subsection.
            (2) Postponement or exclusion.--The Secretary or the County 
        may postpone, or exclude from, a sale or exchange of all or a 
        portion of the eligible land jointly selected under subsection 
        (c) for emergency ecological or safety reasons.
    (h) Withdrawal.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
        mining claims, millsites, and tunnel sites, effective on the 
        date on which a parcel of eligible land is jointly selected 
        under subsection (c) for sale or exchange, that parcel is 
        withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry and appropriation under the 
                public land laws, including the mining laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing and geothermal 
                leasing laws.
            (2) Termination.--The withdrawal of a parcel of eligible 
        land under paragraph (1) shall terminate--
                    (A) on the date of sale or, in the case of 
                exchange, the conveyance of title of the parcel of 
                eligible land under this section; or
                    (B) with respect to any parcel of eligible land 
                selected for sale or exchange under subsection (c) that 
                is not sold or exchanged, not later than 2 years after 
                the date on which the parcel was offered for sale or 
                exchange under this section.

SEC. 714. SALE OF ENCUMBERED LAND.

    (a) Authorization of Conveyance.--Notwithstanding sections 202, 
203, 206, and 209 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
(43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713, 1716, 1719), not later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act and subject to valid existing rights 
held by third parties, the Secretary shall offer to convey to qualified 
entities, for fair market value, the remaining right, title, and 
interest of the United States, in and to the encumbered land.
    (b) Costs of Sales to Qualified Entities.--As a condition of each 
conveyance of encumbered land under this section, the qualified entity 
shall pay all costs related to the conveyance of the encumbered land, 
including the costs of surveys and other administrative costs 
associated with the conveyance.
    (c) Offer To Convey.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
        which the Secretary receives a fair market offer from a 
        qualified entity for the conveyance of encumbered land, the 
        Secretary shall accept the fair market value offer.
            (2) Appraisal.--Fair market value of the interest of the 
        United States in and to encumbered land shall be determined by 
        an appraisal conducted in accordance with the Uniform Standards 
        of Professional Appraisal Practice.
    (d) Conveyance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
acceptance by the Secretary of an offer from a qualified entity under 
subsection (c)(1) and completion of a sale for all or part of the 
applicable portion of encumbered land to the qualified entity, the 
Secretary, by delivery of an appropriate deed, patent, or other valid 
instrument of conveyance, shall convey to the qualified entity all 
remaining right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
applicable portion of the encumbered land.
    (e) Merger.--Subject to valid existing rights held by third 
parties, on delivery of the instrument of conveyance to the qualified 
entity under subsection (d), the prior interests in the locatable 
minerals and the right to use the surface for mineral purposes held by 
the qualified entity under a mining claim, millsite, tunnel site, or 
any other Federal land use authorization applicable to the encumbered 
land included in the instrument of conveyance, shall merge with all 
right, title, and interest conveyed to the qualified entity by the 
United States under this section to ensure that the qualified entity 
receives fee simple title to the purchased encumbered land.

SEC. 715. DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.

    (a) Disposition of Proceeds.--Of the proceeds from the sale of land 
under this title--
            (1) 5 percent shall be disbursed to the State for use in 
        the general education program of the State;
            (2) 10 percent shall be disbursed to the County for use as 
        determined through normal County budgeting procedures; and
            (3) the remainder shall be deposited in a special account 
        in the Treasury of the United States, to be known as the 
        ``Pershing County Special Account'', which shall be available 
        to the Secretary, in consultation with the County, for--
                    (A) the acquisition of land from willing sellers 
                (including interests in land) in the County--
                            (i) within a wilderness area;
                            (ii) that protects other environmentally 
                        significant land;
                            (iii) that secures public access to Federal 
                        land for hunting, fishing, and other 
                        recreational purposes; or
                            (iv) that improves management of Federal 
                        land within the area identified on the Map as 
                        ``Checkerboard Lands Resolution Area''; and
                    (B) the reimbursement of costs incurred by the 
                Secretary in preparing for the sale or exchange of land 
                under this title.
    (b) Investment of Special Account.--Any amounts deposited in the 
special account established under subsection (a)(3)--
            (1) shall earn interest in an amount determined by the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, based on the current average market 
        yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United 
        States of comparable maturities; and
            (2) may be expended by the Secretary in accordance with 
        this section.
    (c) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than September 30 of the fifth 
        fiscal year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
        every 5 fiscal years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to 
        the State, the County, and the appropriate committees of 
        Congress a report on the operation of the special account 
        established under subsection (a)(3) for the preceding 5 fiscal 
        years.
            (2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include, for the fiscal year covered by the report--
                    (A) a statement of the amounts deposited into the 
                special account;
                    (B) a description of the expenditures made from the 
                special account for the fiscal year, including the 
                purpose of the expenditures;
                    (C) recommendations for additional authorities to 
                fulfill the purpose of the special account; and
                    (D) a statement of the balance remaining in the 
                special account at the end of the fiscal year.

SEC. 716. CONVEYANCE OF LAND FOR USE AS A PUBLIC CEMETERY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall convey to the County, without 
consideration, the Federal land described in subsection (b).
    (b) Description of Federal Land.--The Federal land referred to in 
subsection (a) is the approximately 10 acres of land depicted as 
``Unionville Cemetery'' on the Map.
    (c) Use of Conveyed Land.--The Federal land conveyed under 
subsection (a) shall be used by the County as a public cemetery.

                      Subtitle B--Wilderness Areas

SEC. 721. ADDITIONS TO THE NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Additions.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1131 et seq.), the following parcels of Federal land in the State are 
designated as wilderness and as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
            (1) Cain mountain wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        12,339 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Cain Mountain Wilderness'' and dated February 9, 
        2017, which, together with the Federal land designated as 
        wilderness by section 303(a)(3) of division A, shall be known 
        as the ``Cain Mountain Wilderness''.
            (2) Bluewing wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 24,900 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed 
        Bluewing Wilderness'' and dated February 9, 2017, which shall 
        be known as the ``Bluewing Wilderness''.
            (3) Selenite peak wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        22,822 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Selenite Peak Wilderness'' and dated February 9, 
        2017, which shall be known as the ``Selenite Peak Wilderness''.
            (4) Mount limbo wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        11,855 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Mt. Limbo Wilderness'' and dated February 9, 2017, 
        which shall be known as the ``Mount Limbo Wilderness''.
            (5) North sahwave wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        13,875 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Proposed North Sahwave Wilderness'' and dated February 9, 
        2017, which shall be known as the ``North Sahwave Wilderness''.
            (6) Grandfathers wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        35,339 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Grandfathers Wilderness'' and dated February 9, 
        2017, which shall be known as the ``Grandfathers Wilderness''.
            (7) Fencemaker wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 14,942 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed 
        Fencemaker Wilderness'' and dated February 9, 2017, which shall 
        be known as the ``Fencemaker Wilderness''.
    (b) Boundary.--The boundary of any portion of a wilderness area 
that is bordered by a road shall be 100 feet from the centerline of the 
road.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and 
        legal description of each wilderness area.
            (2) Effect.--Each map and legal description prepared under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        clerical and typographical errors in the map or legal 
        description.
            (3) Availability.--Each map and legal description prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (4) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        wilderness areas designated by subsection (a) are withdrawn 
        from--
                    (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) disposition under all laws relating to mineral 
                and geothermal leasing or mineral materials.

SEC. 722. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that with respect to 
the wilderness areas--
            (1) any reference in that Act to the effective date shall 
        be considered to be a reference to the date of the enactment of 
        this Act; and
            (2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        Secretary.
    (b) Livestock.--The grazing of livestock in the wilderness areas, 
if established before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall be 
allowed to continue, subject to such reasonable regulations, policies, 
and practices as the Secretary considers to be necessary in accordance 
with--
            (1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4)); and
            (2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the report of 
        the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress 
        (House Report 101-405).
    (c) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land or 
interest in land within the boundary of a wilderness area that is 
acquired by the United States after the date of the enactment of this 
Act shall be added to and administered as part of the wilderness area.
    (d) Adjacent Management.--
            (1) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
        designation of the wilderness areas to create protective 
        perimeters or buffer zones around the wilderness areas.
            (2) Nonwilderness activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
        activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within a 
        wilderness area shall not preclude the conduct of those 
        activities or uses outside the boundary of the wilderness area.
    (e) Military Overflights.--Nothing in this title restricts or 
precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        wilderness areas, including military overflights that can be 
        seen or heard within the wilderness areas;
            (2) flight testing and evaluation; or
            (3) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace, or the establishment of military flight training 
        routes, over the wilderness areas.
    (f) Wildfire, Insect, and Disease Management.--In accordance with 
section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the 
Secretary may take such measures in the wilderness areas as are 
necessary for the control of fire, insects, and diseases (including, as 
the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the coordination of the 
activities with a State or local agency).
    (g) Climatological Data Collection.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to such terms and 
conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may authorize 
the installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, or 
climatological data collection devices in the wilderness areas if the 
Secretary determines that the facilities and access to the facilities 
are essential to flood warning, flood control, or water reservoir 
operation activities.
    (h) Water Rights.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) the wilderness areas are located--
                            (i) in the semiarid region of the Great 
                        Basin; and
                            (ii) at the headwaters of the streams and 
                        rivers on land with respect to which there are 
                        few, if any--
                                    (I) actual or proposed water 
                                resource facilities located upstream; 
                                and
                                    (II) opportunities for diversion, 
                                storage, or other uses of water 
                                occurring outside the land that would 
                                adversely affect the wilderness values 
                                of the land;
                    (B) the wilderness areas are generally not suitable 
                for use or development of new water resource 
                facilities; and
                    (C) because of the unique nature of the wilderness 
                areas, it is possible to provide for proper management 
                and protection of the wilderness and other values of 
                land in ways different from those used in other laws.
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to protect the 
        wilderness values of the wilderness areas by means other than a 
        federally reserved water right.
            (3) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) constitutes an express or implied reservation 
                by the United States of any water or water rights with 
                respect to the wilderness areas;
                    (B) affects any water rights in the State 
                (including any water rights held by the United States) 
                in existence on the date of the enactment of this Act;
                    (C) establishes a precedent with regard to any 
                future wilderness designations;
                    (D) affects the interpretation of, or any 
                designation made under, any other Act; or
                    (E) limits, alters, modifies, or amends any 
                interstate compact or equitable apportionment decree 
                that apportions water among and between the State and 
                other States.
            (4) Nevada water law.--The Secretary shall follow the 
        procedural and substantive requirements of State law in order 
        to obtain and hold any water rights not in existence on the 
        date of the enactment of this Act with respect to the 
        wilderness areas.
            (5) New projects.--
                    (A) Definition of water resource facility.--
                            (i) In general.--In this paragraph, the 
                        term ``water resource facility'' means 
                        irrigation and pumping facilities, reservoirs, 
                        water conservation works, aqueducts, canals, 
                        ditches, pipelines, wells, hydropower projects, 
                        transmission and other ancillary facilities, 
                        and other water diversion, storage, and 
                        carriage structures.
                            (ii) Exclusion.--In this paragraph, the 
                        term ``water resource facility'' does not 
                        include wildlife guzzlers.
                    (B) Restriction on new water resource facilities.--
                Except as otherwise provided in this title, on and 
                after the date of the enactment of this Act, neither 
                the President nor any other officer, employee, or agent 
                of the United States shall fund, assist, authorize, or 
                issue a license or permit for the development of any 
                new water resource facility within the wilderness 
                areas.
    (i) Temporary Telecommunications Device.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title prevents the 
        placement of a temporary telecommunications device for law 
        enforcement or agency administrative purposes in the Selenite 
        Peak Wilderness in accordance with paragraph (2).
            (2) Additional requirements.--Any temporary 
        telecommunications device authorized by the Secretary under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) be carried out in accordance with--
                            (i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                        seq.); and
                            (ii) all other applicable laws (including 
                        regulations);
                    (B) to the maximum practicable, be located in such 
                a manner as to minimize impacts on the recreational and 
                other wilderness values of the area; and
                    (C) be for a period of not longer than 7 years.

SEC. 723. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title affects or 
diminishes the jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and 
wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, fishing, and 
trapping, in the wilderness areas.
    (b) Management Activities.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the 
Secretary may conduct any management activities in the wilderness areas 
that are necessary to maintain or restore fish and wildlife populations 
and the habitats to support the populations, if the activities are 
carried out--
            (1) consistent with relevant wilderness management plans; 
        and
            (2) in accordance with--
                    (A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); 
                and
                    (B) appropriate policies, such as those set forth 
                in Appendix B of the report of the Committee on 
                Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st 
                Congress (House Report 101-405), including noxious weed 
                treatment and the occasional and temporary use of 
                motorized vehicles if the use, as determined by the 
                Secretary, would promote healthy, viable, and more 
                naturally distributed wildlife populations that would 
                enhance wilderness values with the minimal impact 
                necessary to reasonably accomplish those tasks.
    (c) Existing Activities.--In accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and in accordance with 
appropriate policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of the 
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress (House 
Report 101-405), the State may continue to use aircraft, including 
helicopters, to survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and provide water 
for wildlife populations.
    (d) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--Subject to subsection 
(f), the Secretary shall authorize structures and facilities, including 
existing structures and facilities, for wildlife water development 
projects, including guzzlers, in the wilderness areas if--
            (1) the structures and facilities will, as determined by 
        the Secretary, enhance wilderness values by promoting healthy, 
        viable and more naturally distributed wildlife populations; and
            (2) the visual impacts of the structures and facilities on 
        the wilderness areas can reasonably be minimized.
    (e) Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may designate areas in 
        which, and establish periods during which, for reasons of 
        public safety, administration, or compliance with applicable 
        laws, no hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the 
        wilderness areas.
            (2) Consultation.--Except in emergencies, the Secretary 
        shall consult with the appropriate State agency and notify the 
        public before taking any action under paragraph (1).
    (f) Cooperative Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--The State, including a designee of the 
        State, may conduct wildlife management activities in the 
        wilderness areas--
                    (A) in accordance with the terms and conditions 
                specified in the cooperative agreement between the 
                Secretary and the State entitled ``Memorandum of 
                Understanding between the Bureau of Land Management and 
                the Nevada Department of Wildlife Supplement No. 9'' 
                and signed November and December 2003, including any 
                amendments to the cooperative agreement agreed to by 
                the Secretary and the State; and
                    (B) subject to all applicable laws (including 
                regulations).
            (2) References; clark county.--For the purposes of this 
        subsection, any references to Clark County in the cooperative 
        agreement described in paragraph (1)(A) shall be considered to 
        be a reference to the wilderness areas.

SEC. 724. RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of section 
603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1782(c)), the approximately 48,600 acres of public land in the portions 
of the China Mountain, Mt. Limbo, Selenite Mountains, and Tobin Range 
wilderness study areas that have not been designated as wilderness by 
section 721(a) and the portion of the Augusta Mountains wilderness 
study area within the County that has not been designated as wilderness 
by section 721(a) have been adequately studied for wilderness 
designation.
    (b) Release.--The public land described in subsection (a)--
            (1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
            (2) shall be managed in accordance with the applicable land 
        use plans adopted under section 202 of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712).

SEC. 725. NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS USES.

    (a) In General.--Nothing in this title alters or diminishes the 
treaty rights of any Indian tribe (as defined in section 4 of the 
Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
5304)).
    (b) Cultural Uses.--Nothing in this title precludes the traditional 
collection of pine nuts in a wilderness area for personal, 
noncommercial use consistent with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
seq.).

 TITLE VIII--ALLOWING FOR THE TRANSFER OF FEDERAL LANDS TO BE USED AS 
                          NATIONAL CEMETERIES

SEC. 801. ALLOWING FOR THE TRANSFER OF FEDERAL LANDS TO BE USED AS 
              NATIONAL CEMETERIES.

    Section 2406 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``As additional lands are needed for 
        national cemeteries,'' and inserting ``(a) As additional lands 
        are needed for national cemeteries,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection (b):
    ``(b) Notwithstanding section 1714(d) of title 43, when the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of the Interior agree 
to the transfer of any land for use by the Department of Veterans 
Affairs as a national cemetery under subsection (a), the land shall be 
withdrawn from the public lands and permanently transferred to the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs.''.

                       TITLE IX--FEDERAL COMPLEX

SEC. 901. FEDERAL COMPLEX.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of 
Agriculture shall establish on Federal lands identified as ``Federal 
Complex'' on the map titled ``Proposed Federal Complex'', and dated 
January 27, 2020, a Federal complex for--
            (1) department agencies and operations for the Bureau of 
        Land Management and the Forest Service;
            (2) the Bureau of Land Management Nevada State Office;
            (3) the Forest Service Humboldt-Toiyabe Headquarters;
            (4) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Nevada 
        State Office;
            (5) the Bureau of Reclamation Nevada State Office;
            (6) the Bureau of Indian Affairs Western Nevada Agency 
        Office;
            (7) the option for the Forest Service to house the Carson 
        Ranger District Office; and
            (8) the option for the Bureau of Land Management to house 
        the Carson City District Office.
    (b) Funding Sources.--
            (1) Special accounts.--Ten percent of the total amount 
        deposited in the Federal special accounts established under 
        title VI of division A and titles I, VI, and VII of this 
        division shall be available to the Secretary of the Interior 
        and Secretary of Agriculture for construction of the Federal 
        complex.
            (2) Secondary sources.--If the amount made available by 
        paragraph (1) is insufficient to complete construction of the 
        Federal complex, the Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of 
        Agriculture may use other accounts available for the operation 
        of the Bureau of Land Management, the Fish and Wildlife 
        Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, the Bureau of Indian 
        Affairs, and the Forest Service in Nevada to provide such 
        additional amounts as may be necessary to complete construction 
        of the Federal complex.

                         TITLE X--SMALL TRACTS

SEC. 1001. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``National Forest Small Tracts Act 
Amendments Act''.

SEC. 1002. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY FOR SALE OR EXCHANGE OF SMALL PARCELS 
              OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM LAND.

    (a) Increase in Maximum Value of Small Parcels.--Section 3 of 
Public Law 97-465 (commonly known as the Small Tracts Act; 16 U.S.C. 
521e) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking 
``$150,000'' and inserting ``$500,000''.
    (b) Additional Conveyance Purposes.--Section 3 of Public Law 97-465 
(16 U.S.C. 521e) is further amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``which are--'' and inserting ``which involve any one of the 
        following:'';
            (2) in each of paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``parcels'' and inserting 
                ``Parcels''; and
                    (B) by striking the semicolon at the end and 
                inserting a period;
            (3) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``parcels'' the first place it 
                appears and inserting ``Parcels''; and
                    (B) by striking the semicolon at the end and 
                inserting a period;
            (4) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``road'' and inserting ``Road''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking the semicolon at the end and 
                inserting a period;
            (5) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by striking ``parcels'' and inserting 
                ``Parcels''; and
                    (B) by striking the semicolon at the end and 
                inserting a period;
            (6) in paragraph (5)--
                    (A) by striking ``parcels'' and inserting 
                ``Parcels''; and
                    (B) by striking ``; or'' inserting a period;
            (7) in paragraph (6), by striking ``parcels'' and inserting 
        ``Parcels''; and
            (8) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(7) Parcels of 40 acres or less which are determined by 
        the Secretary to be physically isolated, to be inaccessible, or 
        to have lost their National Forest character.
            ``(8) Parcels of 10 acres or less which are not eligible 
        for conveyance under paragraph (2), but which are encroached 
        upon by permanent habitable improvements for which there is no 
        evidence that the encroachment was intentional or negligent.
            ``(9) Parcels used as a cemetery, a landfill, or a sewage 
        treatment plant under a special use authorization issued by the 
        Secretary. In the case of a cemetery expected to reach capacity 
        within 10 years, the sale, exchange, or interchange may 
        include, in the sole discretion of the Secretary, up to 1 
        additional acre abutting the permit area to facilitate 
        expansion of the cemetery.''.
    (c) Disposition of Proceeds.--Section 2 of Public Law 97-465 (16 
U.S.C. 521d) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary is authorized'' and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(a) Conveyance Authority; Consideration.--The Secretary is 
authorized'';
            (2) by striking ``The Secretary shall insert'' and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(b) Inclusion of Terms, Covenants, Conditions, and 
Reservations.--The Secretary shall insert'';
            (3) by striking ``convenants'' and inserting ``covenants''; 
        and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Disposition of Proceeds.--
            ``(1) Deposit in sisk fund.--The net proceeds derived from 
        any sale or exchange conducted under the authority of paragraph 
        (4), (5), or (6) of section 3 shall be deposited in the fund 
        established by Public Law 90-171 (commonly known as the Sisk 
        Act; 16 U.S.C. 484a).
            ``(2) Use.--Amounts deposited under paragraph (1) shall be 
        available to the Secretary until expended for--
                    ``(A) the acquisition of land or interests in land 
                for administrative sites for the National Forest System 
                in the State from which the amounts were derived;
                    ``(B) the acquisition of land or interests in land 
                for inclusion in the National Forest System in that 
                State, including land or interests in land which 
                enhance opportunities for recreational access;
                    ``(C) the performance of deferred maintenance on 
                administrative sites for the National Forest System in 
                that State or other deferred maintenance activities in 
                that State which enhance opportunities for recreational 
                access; or
                    ``(D) the reimbursement of the Secretary for costs 
                incurred in preparing a sale conducted under the 
                authority of section 3 if the sale is a competitive 
                sale.''.

TITLE XI--IMPLEMENTATION OF WHITE PINE COUNTY CONSERVATION, RECREATION, 
                          AND DEVELOPMENT ACT

SEC. 1101. DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.

    Section 312 of the White Pine County Conservation, Recreation, and 
Development Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-432; 120 Stat. 3030) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Of the'' and inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--Of the''.
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``use of fire protection, 
        law enforcement, education, public safety, housing, social 
        services, transportation and planning'' and inserting ``for use 
        as determined through normal County budgeting procedures'';
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (G), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (H), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(I) processing by a government entity of public 
                land-use authorizations and rights-of-way relating to 
                the development of land conveyed to the County under 
                this Act, with an emphasis on authorizations and 
                rights-of-way relating to any infrastructure needed for 
                the expansion of the White Pine County Industrial Park 
                under section 352(c)(2).''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Investment of Funds.--Amounts deposited in the special 
account shall earn interest in an amount determined by the Secretary of 
the Treasury on the basis of the current average market yield on 
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable 
maturities, and may be expended according to the provisions of this 
section.''.

SEC. 1102. CONVEYANCE TO WHITE PINE COUNTY, NEVADA.

    Section 352 of the White Pine County Conservation, Recreation, and 
Development Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-432; 120 Stat. 3039) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``not later than 120 
        days after the date of the enactment of the Northern Nevada 
        Economic Development and Conservation Act of 2020,'' before 
        ``the Secretary'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting ``or other 
                nonresidential development as determined by the County 
                and in compliance with County planning and zoning 
                codes'' before the final period;
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(B)(i), by striking ``through a 
                competitive bidding process'' and inserting 
                ``consistent with section 244 of the Nevada Revised 
                Statutes (as in effect on the date of the enactment of 
                the Northern Nevada Economic Development and 
                Conservation Act of 2020)''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (3)(C)--
                            (i) by striking ``gross'' and inserting 
                        ``net''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following: 
                        ``For the purpose of this subparagraph, the 
                        term `net proceeds' means funds remaining from 
                        disposal after all costs described in section 
                        312(a)(2).''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Deadline.--If the Secretary has not conveyed to the County 
the parcels of land described in subsection (b) by the date that is 120 
days after the date of the enactment of the Northern Nevada Economic 
Development and Conservation Act of 2020, the Secretary shall convey to 
the County, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to the parcels of land.''.

SEC. 1103. ISSUANCE OF CORRECTIVE PATENTS.

    The White Pine County Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act 
of 2006 (Public Law 109-432; 120 Stat. 3028 et seq.) is amended by 
inserting after section 352 the following:

``SEC. 353. ISSUANCE OF CORRECTIVE PATENTS.

    ``(a) Issuance.--Notwithstanding sections 202 and 203 of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1711, 1712), 
not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this section 
or 60 days after the Secretary receives written notification under this 
section from a private landowner, the Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Bureau of Land Management, shall issue corrective patents, 
subject to valid existing rights, for private lands adjacent to public 
land when--
            ``(1) a cloud on the title demonstrates that the private 
        land had been patented before 1976; and
            ``(2) the correction is for 5 acres or less.
    ``(b) Administrative Costs.--The United States shall pay 
administrative costs of corrective patents issued under this 
section.''.

              TITLE XII--CONVEYANCES TO THE CITY OF SPARKS

SEC. 1201. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the City of Sparks, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Sparks 
        Public Purpose Conveyances'' and dated April 15, 2020.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 1202. CONVEYANCE OF LAND FOR USE AS A PUBLIC CEMETERY.

    (a) Conveyance.--Subject to valid and existing rights and 
notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of section 202 of 
the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), 
the Secretary shall convey to the City without consideration all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the land described 
in subsection (b).
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
the approximately 40 acres of land depicted as ``Cemetery Conveyance'' 
on the Map.
    (c) Costs.--Any costs relating to the conveyance under subsection 
(a), including the costs of surveys and administrative costs, shall be 
paid by the City.
    (d) Use of Land.--The land conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
used only for a cemetery.

SEC. 1203. CONVEYANCE OF LAND FOR USE AS REGIONAL PUBLIC PARKS.

    (a) Conveyance.--Subject to valid and existing rights and 
notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of section 202 of 
the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), 
the Secretary shall convey to the City without consideration all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the land described 
in subsection (b).
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
the approximately 448.16 acres depicted as ``Golden Eagle Regional 
Park'' and 266.04 acres depicted as ``Wedekind Regional Park'' on the 
Map.
    (c) Costs.--Any costs relating to the conveyance under subsection 
(a), including the costs of surveys and administrative costs, shall be 
paid by the City.
    (d) Use of Land.--
            (1) In general.--The land conveyed under subsection (a) 
        shall be used only for public parks.
            (2) Reversion.--If any portion of the land conveyed under 
        subsection (a) is used in a manner that is inconsistent with 
        the use described in paragraph (1), the land shall revert, at 
        the discretion of the Secretary, to the United States.

                TITLE XIII--CONVEYANCE TO WASHOE COUNTY

SEC. 1301. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Washoe County, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Washoe 
        County Lands for Disposal'' and dated January 9, 2020.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 1302. CONVEYANCE OF LAND SUBJECT TO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.

    (a) Conveyance.--Subject to valid and existing rights and 
notwithstanding sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), the Secretary shall 
convey to Washoe County, without consideration, all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the land described in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
the approximately 1,158.22 acres of public land generally depicted as 
``Lands for Disposal'' on the Map.
    (c) Initiation of Conveyance.--The Secretary shall initiate the 
conveyance process under this section upon receipt by the Secretary of 
a written request submitted by the County.
    (d) Costs.--Any costs relating to the conveyance under subsection 
(a), including the costs of surveys and administrative costs, shall be 
paid by the County.
    (e) Use of Land.--
            (1) In general.--The land conveyed under subsection (a) 
        shall be used for economic development, subject to a 
        development agreement being entered into between the County and 
        a County-approved user of the land.
            (2) Reversion.--If any portion of the land conveyed under 
        subsection (a) is used in a manner inconsistent with the 
        development agreement referred to in paragraph (1), the land 
        shall revert, at the discretion of the Secretary, to the United 
        States.

                     TITLE XIV--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 1401. PUBLIC PURPOSE CONVEYANCES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means 
        the State of Nevada, a political subdivision of the State, a 
        unit of local government, or a regional governmental entity in 
        any county of the State of Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means any 
        Federal land in the State of Nevada--
                    (A) that is leased, patented, authorized as a 
                right-of-way, or otherwise approved for use pursuant to 
                the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the 
                ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (44 Stat. 741, 
                chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et 
                seq.), the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), or any other applicable 
                Federal law; and
                    (B) on which a permanent public facility has been 
                or may be constructed.
    (b) Authorization for Conveyance.--Subject to valid existing rights 
and subsection (d), on request by an eligible entity for the conveyance 
of a parcel of Federal land, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey 
to the eligible entity by quitclaim deed, without consideration, terms, 
conditions, reservations, or stipulations, all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the parcel of Federal land for 
any public purpose.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        a request by an eligible entity for a conveyance of Federal 
        land under subsection (b), the Secretary shall file a map and 
        legal description of the parcel of Federal land to be conveyed 
        under that paragraph.
            (2) Effect; availability.--Each map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) have the same force and effect as if included 
                in this Act; and
                    (B) be on file and available for public inspection 
                in the Nevada State Office of the Bureau of Land 
                Management.
            (3) Errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor error in a 
        map or legal description filed under paragraph (1).
    (d) Reversion.--
            (1) In general.--As a condition of a conveyance under 
        subsection (b) and except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary shall require that, if any parcel of the Federal land 
        conveyed under that subsection is no longer used for any public 
        purpose, all right, title, and interest in and to the parcel of 
        Federal land shall--
                    (A) revert to the United States; or
                    (B) on authorization by the Secretary, be disposed 
                of by the eligible entity through a sale, lease, or 
                other conveyance, in accordance with subsection (e).
            (2) Exception.--The removal of sediment from a stormwater 
        detention basin or the movement or removal of minerals on a 
        parcel of Federal land conveyed under subsection (b) that may 
        be interfering with or precluding any public purpose shall not 
        result in the parcel being considered to be no longer used for 
        a public purpose under paragraph (1).
            (3) Requirements for sale, lease, or other conveyance.--
                    (A) Fair market value.--The sale, lease, or other 
                conveyance of a parcel of Federal land by an eligible 
                entity under paragraph (1)(B) shall be for fair market 
                value.
                    (B) Disposition of proceeds.--Any gross proceeds 
                received by an eligible entity from the sale, lease, or 
                other conveyance of a parcel of Federal land under such 
                paragraph shall be deposited in the special account.
            (4) Responsibility for remediation.--If a parcel of Federal 
        land reverts to the Secretary under paragraph (1)(A) and the 
        Secretary determines that the Federal land is contaminated with 
        hazardous waste, the eligible entity to which the Federal land 
        was conveyed shall be responsible for remediation of the 
        contamination of the parcel of Federal land.
    (e) Applicable Law.--Any lease, patent, or real estate transaction 
for Federal land conveyed under subsection (b) is affirmed and 
validated as having been completed pursuant to, and in compliance with, 
the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public 
Purposes Act'') (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et 
seq.), and the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
4321 et seq.), for the construction of public schools, fire stations, 
parks, community centers, law enforcement facilities, flood control 
facilities, and other public infrastructure.
    (f) Payment of Costs.--The Secretary shall pay for any 
administrative and real estate transfer costs incurred in carrying out 
the conveyances of Federal land under subsection (b) using amounts from 
the special account.

SEC. 1402. USE OF CERTAIN SAND AND GRAVEL.

    The movement of common varieties of sand and gravel on a surface 
estate acquired under Public Law 105-263, Public Law 107-282, or under 
the provisions of this division, by the owner of the surface estate, 
for purposes including but not limited to recontouring or balancing the 
surface estate or filling utility trenches on the surface estate, or 
the disposal of such sand and gravel at an off-site landfill, shall not 
constitute the unauthorized use of such sand and gravel.

SEC. 1403. ADMINISTRATION OF STATE WATER RIGHTS.

    Nothing in this division affects the allocation, ownership, 
interest, or control, as in existence on the date of the enactment of 
this Act, of any water, water right, or any other valid existing right 
held by the United States, an Indian tribe, a State, or a person.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
