<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 115th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7140 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






115th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7140

To improve the anti-corruption and public integrity laws, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 16, 2018

 Ms. Jayapal (for herself, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Clarke of New 
  York, Ms. Lee, Ms. Bass, Ms. Norton, Ms. Schakowsky, and Mr. Pocan) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
   the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Oversight and 
  Government Reform, House Administration, Ways and Means, Financial 
  Services, Intelligence (Permanent Select), Rules, Foreign Affairs, 
    Armed Services, and the Budget, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To improve the anti-corruption and public integrity laws, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Anti-Corruption and Public Integrity 
Act''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Applicability.
TITLE I--PUBLIC INTEGRITY, ETHICS, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AND REVOLVING 
                                  DOOR

                   Subtitle A--Conflicts of Interest

Sec. 101. Definitions.
Sec. 102. Lobbyist ban.
Sec. 103. Conflicts of interest law expansions.
Sec. 104. Golden parachutes ban.
Sec. 105. Conflicts of interest rules for senior government officials.
Sec. 106. General public integrity rules.
Sec. 107. Legal expense funds.
Sec. 108. Penalties.
             Subtitle B--Presidential Conflicts of Interest

Sec. 111. Short title.
Sec. 112. Divestiture of personal financial interests of the President 
                            and Vice President that pose a potential 
                            conflict of interest.
Sec. 113. Recusal of appointees.
Sec. 114. Contracts by the President or Vice President.
Sec. 115. Presidential transition ethics programs.
Sec. 116. Sense of Congress regarding violations.
Sec. 117. Rule of construction.
Sec. 118. Severability.
                       TITLE II--LOBBYING REFORM

Sec. 201. Enforcement by the Office of Public Integrity.
Sec. 202. Definitions.
Sec. 203. Registration of lobbyists.
Sec. 204. Reports by lobbyists.
Sec. 205. Prohibition on foreign lobbying.
Sec. 206. Prohibition of contributions by lobbyists.
Sec. 207. Prohibition on contingent fee lobbying.
Sec. 208. Prohibition on provision of gifts or travel by registered 
                            lobbyists.
Sec. 209. Application of General Schedule to Congress.
Sec. 210. Reestablishment of Office of Technology Assessment.
Sec. 211. Progressive tax on lobbying expenditures.
Sec. 212. Disclosure of registration status.
                      TITLE III--RULEMAKING REFORM

Sec. 301. Disclosure of conflicts of interest.
Sec. 302. Increasing disclosures relating to studies and research.
Sec. 303. Disclosure of inter-governmental rule changes.
Sec. 304. Justification of withdrawn rules.
Sec. 305. Negotiated rulemaking.
Sec. 306. Streamlining OIRA review.
Sec. 307. Limiting temporary court injunctions and postponing of final 
                            rules pending judicial review.
Sec. 308. Penalizing individuals that submit false information to 
                            agencies.
Sec. 309. Establishment of the Office of the Public Advocate.
Sec. 310. Actions by private persons.
Sec. 311. Scope of review.
Sec. 312. Expanding rulemaking notifications.
Sec. 313. Public petitions.
Sec. 314. Amendment to Congressional Review Act.
Sec. 315. Cost-benefit analysis.
Sec. 316. Sense of Congress.
                       TITLE IV--JUDICIAL ETHICS

Sec. 401. Clarification of gift ban.
Sec. 402. Restrict privately funded educational events and speeches.
Sec. 403. Code of Conduct.
Sec. 404. Improving disclosure.
Sec. 405. Appointment of administrative law judges.
Sec. 406. Improve reporting on judicial diversity.
Sec. 407. Pleading standards.
Sec. 408. Availability of judicial opinions.
                          TITLE V--ENFORCEMENT

                 Subtitle A--Office of Public Integrity

Sec. 511. Establishment of Office of Public Integrity.
Sec. 512. Designated agency ethics officials.
                     Subtitle B--Inspectors General

Sec. 531. General supervision and removal of Inspectors General.
               Subtitle C--Office of Congressional Ethics

Sec. 551. Definitions.
Sec. 552. The Office of Congressional Ethics.
Sec. 553. Establishment of the Board of the Office of Congressional 
                            Ethics.
Sec. 554. Duties and Powers of the Office and the Board.
Sec. 555. Review process of complaints.
Sec. 556. Personnel matters.
Sec. 557. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 558. Conforming amendments and rules of construction.
                       Subtitle D--Applicability

Sec. 571. Applicability.
             TITLE VI--TRANSPARENCY AND GOVERNMENT RECORDS

   Subtitle A--Transparency for Federal Personnel and Candidates for 
                             Federal Office

Sec. 601. Categories relating to the amount or value of certain income.
Sec. 602. Disclosure of personal income tax returns by Presidents, Vice 
                            Presidents, Members of Congress, and 
                            certain candidates.
Sec. 603. Transparency relating to candidates for Federal office and 
                            Members of Congress.
      Subtitle B--Think Tank, Nonprofit, and Advocate Transparency

Sec. 611. Amendments to the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995.
Sec. 612. Amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
               Subtitle C--Strengthening FOIA Enforcement

Sec. 621. Strengthening FOIA enforcement.
Sec. 622. Exemptions from disclosure.
Sec. 623. Public interest balancing test.
Sec. 624. Affirmative disclosure of agency records on website.
Sec. 625. Applicability.
              Subtitle D--Federal Contractor Transparency

Sec. 631. Expanding applicability of the Freedom of Information Act to 
                            Federal contractors.
Sec. 632. Public disclosure by large contractors.
                 Subtitle E--Congressional Transparency

Sec. 641. Increased transparency of committee work.
Sec. 642. Increased transparency of recorded votes.
Sec. 643. Increased transparency of appropriations bills.

SEC. 3. APPLICABILITY.

    Except as provided otherwise in this Act, this Act and the 
amendments made by this Act shall apply on and after the date that is 1 
year after the date of enactment of this Act.

TITLE I--PUBLIC INTEGRITY, ETHICS, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AND REVOLVING 
                                  DOOR

                   Subtitle A--Conflicts of Interest

SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
            (2) Agent of a foreign principal.--The term ``agent of a 
        foreign principal'' has the meaning given the term in section 1 
        of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 611).
            (3) Bank holding company.--The term ``bank holding 
        company'' has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the 
        Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841).
            (4) Corporate lobbyist.--The term ``corporate lobbyist'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 109 of the Ethics in 
        Government Act of 1978, as amended by section 202 of this Act.
            (5) Covered entity.--The term ``covered entity'' means any 
        entity that is--
                    (A)(i) a for-profit company; or
                    (ii) a bank holding company, a savings and loan 
                holding company, or any other financial institution; 
                and
                    (B)(i) operating under Federal settlement, 
                including a Federal consent decree; or
                    (ii) the subject of an enforcement action in a 
                court of the United States or by an agency.
            (6) Executive agency.--The term ``Executive agency''--
                    (A) has the meaning given the term in section 105 
                of title 5, United States Code; and
                    (B) includes the Executive Office of the President.
            (7) Gross receipts.--The term ``gross receipts'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 993(f) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986.
            (8) Lobbyist.--The term ``lobbyist'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 109 of the Ethics in Government Act of 
        1978, as amended by section 202 of this Act.
            (9) Qualified small business.--The term ``qualified small 
        business'' means a corporation, company, firm, partnership, or 
        other business enterprise, that has gross receipts for the 
        previous taxable year of less than $5,000,000.
            (10) Savings and loan holding company.--The term ``savings 
        and loan holding company'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 10(a) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 
        1467a(a)).
            (11) Senior executive.--The term ``senior executive'' 
        includes--
                    (A) a chief executive officer;
                    (B) a chief financial officer;
                    (C) a chief operating officer;
                    (D) a chief compliance officer;
                    (E) any senior government relationship official; 
                and
                    (F) any other senior executive, as determined by 
                the Director of the Office of Public Integrity.
            (12) Senior government official.--The term ``senior 
        government official'' means--
                    (A) any individual described in section 101(f) of 
                the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), 
                including--
                            (i) any individual in a position on any 
                        level of the Executive Schedule under 
                        subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5, United 
                        States Code;
                            (ii) a political appointee in the Executive 
                        Office of President or in the Office of the 
                        Vice President; and
                            (iii) an individual employed in a position 
                        in the executive branch of the Government of a 
                        confidential or policy-determining character 
                        under schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of 
                        title 5, Code of Federal Regulations;
                    (B) an individual employed in a position in the 
                Senior Executive Service;
                    (C) an individual employed in a position at the GS-
                14 level or higher; and
                    (D) an individual employed in a position not under 
                the General Schedule for which the rate of basic pay is 
                equal to or greater than the minimum rate of basic pay 
                payable for GS-14 of the General Schedule.

SEC. 102. LOBBYIST BAN.

    (a) Lobbyists.--
            (1) Executive branch.--
                    (A) Lobbyists.--No former registered lobbyist or 
                agent of a foreign principal who has engaged in a 
                lobbying contact, as defined in section 3 of the 
                Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1602), during 
                his or her registration may be hired as an officer or 
                employee of an Executive agency during the 2-year 
                period beginning on the date on which the registered 
                lobbyist terminates his or her registration in 
                accordance with section 4(d) of the Lobbying Disclosure 
                Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1603(d)) or the agent terminates 
                his or her status, as applicable.
                    (B) Corporate lobbyists.--No former registered 
                corporate lobbyist may be hired as an officer or 
                employee of an Executive agency during the 6-year 
                period beginning on the date on which the registered 
                corporate lobbyist terminates its registration in 
                accordance with section 4(d) of the Lobbying Disclosure 
                Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1603(d)) or the agent terminates 
                its status, as applicable.
                    (C) Waiver rules and eligibility.--
                            (i) Positions requiring senate 
                        confirmation.--The President may waive the ban 
                        described in subparagraph (A) for any 
                        appointment to a position in an Executive 
                        agency that requires the advice and consent of 
                        the Senate based on a compelling national need.
                            (ii) Other positions.--The President or the 
                        Director of the Office of Public Integrity may 
                        waive the ban described in subparagraph (A) and 
                        the prior employer recusal provision described 
                        in section 208(e) of title 18, United States 
                        Code, as added by section 103(a) of this Act 
                        for any appointment to a position in an 
                        Executive agency that does not require the 
                        advice and consent of the Senate.
                            (iii) Requirements.--A waiver made under 
                        this subparagraph shall--
                                    (I) be made publicly available and 
                                searchable by the Director of the 
                                Office of Public Integrity;
                                    (II) include a justification sent 
                                to Congress for why the registered 
                                lobbyist or agent of a foreign 
                                principal, as applicable, brings unique 
                                and relevant expertise such that it is 
                                not practical to find an alternative 
                                candidate with the same skill set; and
                                    (III) with respect to a nomination 
                                to a position described in clause (i)--
                                            (aa) specifically identify 
                                        the next-best candidate who was 
                                        not a registered lobbyist or 
                                        agent of a foreign principal, 
                                        as applicable; and
                                            (bb) include a 
                                        justification for why the next-
                                        best candidate was not 
                                        nominated for the position.
            (2) Legislative branch.--
                    (A) Lobbyists.--No former registered lobbyist or 
                agent of a foreign principal may be hired as an officer 
                or employee of a Member of Congress or a committee of 
                either House of Congress during the 2-year period 
                beginning on the date on which the registered lobbyist 
                terminates its registration in accordance with section 
                4(d) of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
                1603(d)) or the agent terminates its status, as 
                applicable.
                    (B) Corporate lobbyists.--No former registered 
                lobbyist or agent of a foreign principal may be hired 
                as an officer or employee of a Member of Congress or a 
                committee of either House of Congress during the 6-year 
                period beginning on the date on which the registered 
                corporate lobbyist terminates its registration in 
                accordance with section 4(d) of the Lobbying Disclosure 
                Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1603(d)) or the agent terminates 
                its status, as applicable.
                    (C) Waiver rules and eligibility.--
                            (i) In general.--Any Member of Congress may 
                        waive the ban described in subparagraph (A) for 
                        an officer or employee of that Member of 
                        Congress or of a committee of either House of 
                        Congress on which the Member serves as a chair 
                        or ranking member based on a compelling 
                        national need.
                            (ii) Requirements.--A waiver made under 
                        this subparagraph shall--
                                    (I) be submitted to the Select 
                                Committee on Ethics of the Senate or 
                                the Committee on Ethics of the House of 
                                Representatives, as applicable, and to 
                                the Office of Congressional Ethics;
                                    (II) be made publicly available and 
                                searchable by the Office of 
                                Congressional Ethics;
                                    (III) include a justification made 
                                publicly available for why the 
                                registered lobbyist or agent of a 
                                foreign principal, as applicable, 
                                brings unique and relevant expertise 
                                such that it is not practical to find 
                                an alternative candidate with the same 
                                skill set; and
                                    (IV) be made only after the 
                                Congressional Ethics Board submits to 
                                the Member of Congress and to the 
                                Select Committee on Ethics of the 
                                Senate or the Committee on Ethics of 
                                the House of Representatives, as 
                                applicable, a public recommendation 
                                regarding such a waiver.
    (b) Other Banned Individuals.--
            (1) Contractors.--
                    (A) In general.--No former employee of a for-profit 
                entity that was awarded a Federal contract or Federal 
                license by an Executive agency may be an officer or 
                employee of the Executive agency that awarded the 
                contract or Federal license during the 4-year period 
                beginning on the date on which the employee terminates 
                its employment with the entity.
                    (B) Waiver.--The ban described in subparagraph (A) 
                may be waived in accordance with subsection (a)(1)(C).
            (2) Senior executives of law-breaking companies.--No former 
        senior executive of a covered entity may be an officer or 
        employee of an Executive agency, a Member of Congress, a 
        committee of either House of Congress, or either House of 
        Congress during the 6-year period beginning on the later of--
                    (A) the date of the settlement; and
                    (B) the date on which the enforcement action has 
                concluded.

SEC. 103. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST LAW EXPANSIONS.

    (a) Executive Branch.--Section 208 of title 18, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e)(1) In this subsection, the term `Executive agency' has the 
meaning given the term in section 101 of the Anti-Corruption and Public 
Integrity Act.
    ``(2)(A) No officer or employee of an Executive agency may own or 
trade any individual stock, bond, commodity, future, and other form of 
security, including an interest in a hedge fund, a derivative, option, 
or other complex investment vehicle if the Director of the Office of 
Public Integrity (or the designated agency ethics official of the 
agency that employs the individual) determines that the value of the 
stock or security may be directly influenced by an action of the 
Executive agency.
    ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to--
            ``(i) a widely held investment fund described in section 
        102(f)(8) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 App. 
        U.S.C. 102(f)(8)), if such investment meets the requirements 
        described in section 105(b)(2) of the Anti-Corruption and 
        Public Integrity Act;
            ``(ii) shares of Settlement Common Stock issued under 
        section 7(g)(1)(A) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act 
        (43 U.S.C. 1606(g)(1)(A)); or
            ``(iii) shares of Settlement Common Stock, as defined in 
        section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
        1602).
    ``(C) Whoever violates subparagraph (A) shall be punished as 
provided in section 216.
    ``(D) The Director of the Office of Public Integrity may waive 
subparagraph (A) for an officer or employee of an Executive agency on a 
case-by-case basis if the Director--
            ``(i) determines that there is no possibility for, or the 
        appearance of, a conflict of interest; or
            ``(ii) approves a plan for necessary recusals that ensures 
        that no conflict of interest exists.
    ``(3)(A) Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), each 
officer and employee of any Executive agency shall be recused from, and 
may not in any way attempt to use their official position to influence, 
any particular matter, including an adjudication, procurement, or 
rulemaking, that the officer or employee knows is likely to have a 
direct and predictable effect on the financial interest of--
            ``(i) any person for whom the officer or employee had, 
        during the previous 4-year period, served as an officer, 
        director, trustee, general partner, agent, attorney, 
        consultant, contractor, employee, or direct competitor; or
            ``(ii) any organization other than a political organization 
        described in section 527(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986 in which the employee is an active participant.
    ``(B) This paragraph shall not apply to--
            ``(i) the President;
            ``(ii) the Vice President;
            ``(iii) any individual in a position on any level of the 
        Executive Schedule under subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 
        5;
            ``(iv) any individual appointed to a position in an 
        Executive agency by and with the advice and consent of the 
        Senate;
            ``(v) an officer or employee who served as an officer, 
        director, trustee, general partner, agent, attorney, 
        consultant, contractor, or employee of a tribal organization 
        (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and 
        Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304)) or an intertribal 
        consortium of federally recognized Indian tribes with respect 
        to a matter that is likely to have a direct and predictable 
        effect on the financial interest of the tribal organization or 
        intertribal consortium; or
            ``(vi) any individual who receives a waiver under 
        subparagraph (C).
    ``(C)(i) The Director of Public Integrity may waive the 
requirements of this paragraph for any officer or employee (except 
individuals described in clause (iii)(III)).
    ``(ii) Officers and employees may only apply to the Director of 
Public Integrity for a waiver under this subparagraph if the individual 
agrees to comply with the Conflicts of Interest Rules for Senior 
Government Officials in subsections (a) and (c) of section 105 of the 
Anti-Corruption and Public Integrity Act.
    ``(iii) A waiver made under this subparagraph--
            ``(I) shall be made publicly available and searchable;
            ``(II) shall include a justification sent to Congress for 
        why the waiver is in the national interest; and
            ``(III) may not be granted if the individual received a 
        waiver under section 102(a)(1)(C) of the Anti-Corruption and 
        Public Integrity Act.
    ``(iv) The Director of Public Integrity may deny a waiver under 
this subparagraph for any reason.''.
    (b) Legislative Branch.--
            (1) Divestment.--Except as provided in paragraph (5), no 
        senior government official in the legislative branch (including 
        Members of Congress) may own or trade any individual stock, 
        bonds, commodity, future, and other form of security, including 
        an interest in a hedge fund, a derivative, option, or other 
        complex investment vehicle.
            (2) Committee staff rule.--No officer or employee of a 
        committee of either House of Congress may maintain, own, or 
        trade any substantial holdings (including individual stocks and 
        securities) which may be directly affected by the actions of 
        the committee for which the individual works, unless the Select 
        Committee on Ethics of the Senate or the Committee on Ethics of 
        the House of Representatives, as applicable, approves of such 
        holdings in writing after consultation with the supervisor of 
        the officer or employee and the Office of Congressional Ethics.
            (3) General conflicts of interest rule for congressional 
        staff and members.--No Member, officer, or employee of a 
        committee or Member of either House of Congress may knowingly 
        use his or her official position to introduce or aid the 
        progress or passage of legislation, a principal purpose of 
        which is to further only his or her pecuniary interest, only 
        the pecuniary interest of his or her immediate family, or only 
        the pecuniary interest of a limited class of persons or 
        enterprises, when he or she, or his or her immediate family, or 
        enterprises controlled by them, are members of the affected 
        class.
            (4) General stock and securities rule.--An officer or 
        employee of a committee or Member of either House of Congress, 
        who is not a senior government employee covered by paragraph 
        (1), shall be in violation of paragraph (3) if--
                    (A) the officer or employee owns or trades 
                individual stocks or securities; and
                    (B) the value of such stocks or securities may be 
                influenced by actions taken by the individual in his or 
                her official position, as determined by the Select 
                Committee on Ethics of the Senate or the Committee on 
                Ethics of the House of Representatives, as applicable, 
                in consultation with the Office of Congressional 
                Ethics.
            (5) Exception.--Nothing in this subsection shall be 
        construed to prevent an employee or officials of a Member of 
        Congress or a Member of Congress from owning--
                    (A) a widely held investment fund described in 
                section 102(f)(8) of the Ethics in Government Act of 
                1978 (5 App. U.S.C. 102(f)(8)), if the investment meets 
                the requirements described in section 105(b)(2);
                    (B) shares of Settlement Common Stock issued under 
                section 7(g)(1)(A) of the Alaska Native Claims 
                Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1606(g)(1)(A)); or
                    (C) shares of Settlement Common Stock, as defined 
                in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act 
                (43 U.S.C. 1602).

SEC. 104. GOLDEN PARACHUTES BAN.

    (a) In General.--Section 209 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``any salary'' and inserting ``any 
                bonus or salary''; and
                    (B) by striking ``his services'' and inserting 
                ``services rendered or to be rendered''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2)(A) In this paragraph, the term `compensation' includes a 
retention award or bonus, severance pay, and any other payment linked 
to future service in the Federal Government in any way.
    ``(B) For purposes of paragraph (1), a pension, retirement, group 
life, health or accident insurance, profit-sharing, stock bonus, or 
other employee welfare or benefit plan that makes payment of 
compensation contingent on accepting a position in the Federal 
Government shall not be considered bona fide.''.
    (b) Permissible Payments.--Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(iii) of title 26, 
Code of Federal Regulations, shall have no force or effect.

SEC. 105. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST RULES FOR SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.

    (a) Required Divestments of Conflicted Assets.--
            (1) Stocks and securities.--No senior government official 
        may own or trade any individual stock, bonds, commodity, 
        future, and other form of security, including an interest in a 
        hedge fund, a derivative, option, or other complex investment 
        vehicle.
            (2) Commercial real estate.--No senior government official 
        may maintain ownership in commercial real estate, unless 
        ownership of such commercial real estate is necessary for a 
        qualified small business described in paragraph (4)(B).
            (3) Trusts.--
                    (A) In general.--No senior government official may 
                maintain a financial interest in any trust, including a 
                family trust, if the supervising ethics agency 
                determines that the trust includes any--
                            (i) asset that might present a conflict of 
                        interest; or
                            (ii) individual stock, bonds, commodity, 
                        future, and other form of security, including 
                        an interest in a hedge fund, a derivative, 
                        option, or other complex investment vehicle.
                    (B) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to 
                a trust described in section 102(f)(2) of the Ethics in 
                Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
            (4) Businesses and companies.--
                    (A) In general.--No senior government official may 
                maintain ownership in a privately owned or closely held 
                corporation, company, firm, partnership, or other 
                business enterprise.
                    (B) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to 
                a qualified small business.
    (b) Nonconflicted Assets.--
            (1) In general.--A senior government official may maintain 
        assets that do not present a conflict of interest, including--
                    (A) a widely held investment fund--
                            (i) described in section 102(f)(8) of the 
                        Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
                        App.); and
                            (ii) that meets the requirements described 
                        in paragraph (2);
                    (B) real estate used solely as a personal 
                residence;
                    (C) cash, certificates of deposit, or other forms 
                of savings accounts;
                    (D) a federally managed asset, including--
                            (i) financial interests in or income 
                        derived from--
                                    (I) any retirement system under 
                                title 5, United States Code (including 
                                the Thrift Savings Plan under 
                                subchapter III of chapter 84 of such 
                                title); or
                                    (II) any other retirement system 
                                maintained by the United States for 
                                officers or employees of the United 
                                States, including the President, or for 
                                members of the uniformed services;
                            (ii) benefits received under the Social 
                        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.); and
                            (iii) an asset in the Federal Employee 
                        Investment Account described in paragraph (3);
                    (E) bonds, bills, and notes issued by a 
                governmental sources, such as the Federal Government, 
                State, or other municipality;
                    (F) shares of Settlement Common Stock issued under 
                section 7(g)(1)(A) of the Alaska Native Claims 
                Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1606(g)(1)(A)); and
                    (G) shares of Settlement Common Stock, as defined 
                in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act 
                (43 U.S.C. 1602).
            (2) Widely held investment fund requirements.--A senior 
        government official may not maintain a widely held investment 
        fund, unless--
                    (A) the widely held investment fund is certified as 
                not presenting a conflict of interest by the applicable 
                supervising ethics office; and
                    (B) any instructions to a manager of the widely 
                held investment fund are shared with the applicable 
                supervising ethics office.
            (3) Federal employee investment account.--
                    (A) In general.--There are established in the 
                Treasury of the United States accounts for senior 
                government officials to maintain investments in the 
                stock and securities markets to be known as Federal 
                Employee Investment Accounts.
                    (B) Divestment.--To comply with the requirements 
                under this Act, a senior government official may sell 
                an asset or security, including those assets or 
                securities that present a conflict of interest under 
                subsection (a), and invest the resulting funds into the 
                Federal Employee Investment Accounts.
                    (C) Management.--The Federal Retirement Thrift 
                Investment Board shall manage Federal Employee 
                Investment Accounts in a manner similar to other 
                retirement funds managed by the Board and in accordance 
                with subchapter III of chapter 84 of title 5, United 
                States Code, for any Federal employee or official who 
                wishes to temporarily invest funds.
                    (D) Withdrawal.--A senior government officials may 
                withdraw funds from their Federal Employee Investment 
                Account at any time without penalty.
    (c) Post-Employment Restrictions.--
            (1) In general.--Section 207 of title 18, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsections (c), (d), and (e) and 
                inserting the following:
    ``(c) Lobbying Restrictions.--
            ``(1) In general.--In addition to the restrictions set 
        forth in subsections (a) and (b), any President, Vice 
        President, Member of Congress, or officer or employee 
        compensated at a rate of pay specified in or fixed according to 
        subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5, after the termination 
        of his or her service or employment with the United States 
        who--
                    ``(A) works as a registered lobbyist; or
                    ``(B) knowingly makes, with the intent to 
                influence, any communication to or appearance before 
                any officer or employee of any department, agency, 
                Member, officer, or employee of either House of 
                Congress or any employee of any other legislative 
                office of the Congress, on behalf of any other person 
                (except the United States or the District of Columbia) 
                for compensation, in connection with any matter on 
                which such person seeks official action by any Member, 
                officer, or employee of either House of Congress, or 
                any employee or officer of any department or agency,
        shall be punished as provided in section 216 of this title.
            ``(2) Other officials.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Any officer or employee in the 
                executive or legislative branch of the United States 
                who, during the time period described in subparagraph 
                (B) makes, with the intent to influence, any 
                communication to or appearance before their former 
                office, agency, or House of Congress, for compensation, 
                shall be punished as provided in section 216 of this 
                title.
                    ``(B) Time period.--The time period described in 
                this subparagraph is as follows:
                            ``(i) With respect to an officer or 
                        employee of the legislative branch, 2 years 
                        after the termination of service or employment 
                        as an officer or employee.
                            ``(ii) With respect to an officer or 
                        employee of the executive branch, the later 
                        of--
                                    ``(I) the date on which a President 
                                other than the President serving during 
                                the employment of the officer or 
                                employee takes office; and
                                    ``(II) the date on which the 2-year 
                                period beginning on the date of the 
                                termination of service or employment as 
                                an officer or employee expires.
                            ``(iii) With respect to an officer or 
                        employee of the executive branch of the United 
                        States who becomes a corporate lobbyist, the 
                        later of--
                                    ``(I) the date on which a President 
                                other than the President serving during 
                                the employment of the officer or 
                                employee takes office; and
                                    ``(II) the date on which the 6-year 
                                period beginning on the date of the 
                                termination of service or employment as 
                                an officer or employee expires.
                            ``(iv) With respect to an officer or 
                        employee of the legislative branch of the 
                        United States who becomes a corporate lobbyist, 
                        the date on which the 6-year period beginning 
                        on the date of the termination of service or 
                        employment as an officer or employee 
                        expires.'';
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (f) through (l) as 
                subsections (d) through (j), respectively; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k) Other Post-Employment Restrictions.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Giant bank or company.--The term `giant bank 
                or company' includes--
                            ``(i) any for-profit company or financial 
                        institution with greater than an average of 
                        $150,000,000,000 in market capitalization or 
                        revenue for the previous 3-year period;
                            ``(ii) any Federal contractor that received 
                        greater than $5,000,000,000 in annual revenue 
                        from the Federal Government during the previous 
                        3-year period; and
                            ``(iii) any for-profit company or financial 
                        institution that exerts monopolistic or 
                        monopsonistic control over a significant share 
                        of the market in its particular industry (as 
                        defined by the Director of the Office of Public 
                        Integrity, in consultation with the Attorney 
                        General, by regulation).
                    ``(B) Lobbying contact.--The term `lobbying 
                contact' has the meaning given the term in section 3 of 
                the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1602).
                    ``(C) Registered lobbyist.--The term `registered 
                lobbyist' means a lobbyist registered under the 
                Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et 
                seq.).
                    ``(D) Senior government official.--The term `senior 
                government official' means--
                            ``(i) any individual described in section 
                        101(f) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 
                        (5 U.S.C. App.), including--
                                    ``(I) any individual in a position 
                                on any level of the Executive Schedule 
                                under subchapter II of chapter 53 of 
                                title 5, United States Code;
                                    ``(II) a political appointee in the 
                                Executive Office of President or in the 
                                Office of the Vice President; and
                                    ``(III) an individual employed in a 
                                position in the executive branch of the 
                                Government of a confidential or policy-
                                determining character under schedule C 
                                of subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of 
                                the Code of Federal Regulations;
                            ``(ii) an individual employed in a position 
                        in the Senior Executive Service;
                            ``(iii) an individual employed in a 
                        position at the GS-14 level or higher; and
                            ``(iv) an individual employed in a position 
                        not under the General Schedule for which the 
                        rate of basic pay is equal to or greater than 
                        the minimum rate of basic pay payable for GS-14 
                        of the General Schedule.
            ``(2) Senior government official hiring restriction.--No 
        for-profit corporation, company, firm, partnership, or other 
        business enterprise may hire or directly or indirectly 
        compensate (including as consultants and lawyers) any former 
        senior government official, for 1 year after the official 
        leaves government service, from an agency, department, or 
        congressional office that the corporation, company, firm, 
        partnership, or other business enterprise made a lobbying 
        contact in the past 2 years.
            ``(3) Special rules.--
                    ``(A) Procurement officers.--No company that is 
                awarded a contract or license by the Federal Government 
                may hire or compensate any former officer or employee 
                in the executive branch of the United States who 
                oversaw any of the company's contracts or licenses 
                (including any procurement officer, any Federal 
                employee or official who participated in the contract 
                or license selection, any Federal employee or official 
                who determined or signed off on the technical 
                requirements of the contract or license, and any senior 
                government official in the executive branch of the 
                United States employed at the agency that granted the 
                contract or license) during the 4-year period beginning 
                on the date on which the officer terminated employment 
                with the United States.
                    ``(B) Giant banks and companies.--
                            ``(i) In general.--No giant bank or company 
                        may hire or directly or indirectly compensate 
                        (including as consultants and lawyers) any 
                        senior government official during the 4-year 
                        period beginning on the date on which the 
                        official terminated employment with the United 
                        States.
                            ``(ii) Income disclosures.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Not later than 1 
                                year after the date of enactment of 
                                this clause, each senior government 
                                official who terminates service on or 
                                after the date that is 1 year after the 
                                date of enactment of this clause shall 
                                submit to the Director of the Office of 
                                Public Integrity an annual disclosure 
                                that includes all sources of income for 
                                the 4-year period beginning on the date 
                                on which the government official 
                                terminated employment with the United 
                                States.
                                    ``(II) Publicly available.--The 
                                Director of the Office of Public 
                                Integrity shall make a disclosure made 
                                under subclause (I) publicly available 
                                for any official who had a report made 
                                in accordance with title I of the 
                                Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 
                                U.S.C. App.) made publicly available.
                                    ``(III) Automatic disclosure.--
                                            ``(aa) In general.--Each 
                                        senior government official 
                                        subject to the disclosure 
                                        requirement in subclause (I) 
                                        may consent to allow the 
                                        Director of the Office of 
                                        Public Integrity to obtain from 
                                        the Commissioner of Internal 
                                        Revenue the information 
                                        necessary to meet the 
                                        requirements of subclause (I), 
                                        such that additional action is 
                                        not required of the senior 
                                        government official after such 
                                        individual files a tax return.
                                            ``(bb) Safe harbor.--Any 
                                        individual who consents under 
                                        item (aa) shall not be subject 
                                        to subclause (V).
                                    ``(IV) Memorandum of 
                                understanding.--Not later than 1 year 
                                after the date of enactment of this 
                                subclause, the Director of the Office 
                                of Public Integrity and the 
                                Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall 
                                enter into a cooperative agreement or 
                                memorandum of understanding to 
                                establish secure means to allow for the 
                                necessary information exchange in 
                                subclause (III) for senior government 
                                officials who wish to avail themselves 
                                of the automatic disclosure under 
                                subclause (III).
                                    ``(V) Penalties.--
                                            ``(aa) Civil action.--The 
                                        Attorney General or the 
                                        Director of the Office of 
                                        Public Integrity may bring a 
                                        civil action in any appropriate 
                                        United States district court 
                                        against any individual who 
                                        knowingly and willfully 
                                        falsifies or who knowingly and 
                                        willfully fails to disclose any 
                                        information that such 
                                        individual is required to 
                                        disclose pursuant to this 
                                        clause. The court in which such 
                                        action is brought may assess 
                                        against such individual a civil 
                                        penalty in any amount, not to 
                                        exceed $50,000.
                                            ``(bb) Criminal 
                                        penalties.--

                                                    ``(AA) 
                                                Prohibition.--It shall 
                                                be unlawful for any 
                                                person to knowingly and 
                                                willfully falsify any 
                                                information that such 
                                                person is required to 
                                                disclose under this 
                                                clause. It shall be 
                                                unlawful for any person 
                                                to fail to disclose any 
                                                information that such 
                                                person is required to 
                                                disclose under this 
                                                clause.

                                                    ``(BB) Penalties.--
                                                Any person who violates 
                                                the first sentence of 
                                                subitem (AA) shall be 
                                                fined under title 18, 
                                                United States Code, 
                                                imprisoned for not more 
                                                than 1 year, or both. 
                                                Any person who violates 
                                                the second sentence of 
                                                subitem (AA) shall be 
                                                fined under title 18, 
                                                United States Code.

            ``(4) Penalties.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Director of Office of Public 
                Integrity may impose a civil penalty or a sanction on 
                any entity or giant bank or company upon making a 
                determination, after reasonable notice and opportunity 
                for a hearing, that the entity or giant bank or company 
                has violated paragraph (2) or (3)(B).
                    ``(B) Amount of civil penalties.--A civil penalty 
                imposed for a violation under subparagraph (A) shall--
                            ``(i) in the case of an initial violation, 
                        be not less than 1 percent of the net profit of 
                        the entity or giant bank or company for the 
                        previous year;
                            ``(ii) in the case of a second violation, 
                        not less than 2 percent of the net profit of 
                        the entity or giant bank or company for the 
                        previous year; and
                            ``(iii) in the case of a third or 
                        subsequent violation, not less than 5 percent 
                        of the net profit of the entity or giant bank 
                        or company for the previous year.
                    ``(C) Other penalties and sanctions companies.--In 
                addition to a civil penalty imposed under this clause, 
                after reasonable notice and an opportunity for a 
                hearing, if the Director of the Office of Public 
                Integrity determines that a company has violated 
                paragraph (2) or (3)(B), the Director may impose a 
                sanction on an entity or a giant bank or company, 
                including--
                            ``(i) prohibiting the entity or giant bank 
                        or company from employing any former employee 
                        or officer of the Federal Government for a 
                        period of time not to exceed 8 years; and
                            ``(ii) prohibiting the company from doing 
                        business with the Federal Government, receiving 
                        a contract or license from the Federal 
                        Government, or otherwise participating in 
                        Federal Government programs, for a period of 
                        time not to exceed 8 years.
                    ``(D) Civil penalties for executive officers of 
                companies.--
                            ``(i) Definition.--In this subclause, the 
                        term `compensation' includes, based on 
                        information required to be reported any Federal 
                        agency during the period in which a violation 
                        of paragraph (2) or (3)(B) occurred--
                                    ``(I) the proceeds of any sale of 
                                stock; and
                                    ``(II) any incentive-based 
                                compensation (including stock options 
                                awarded as compensation).
                            ``(ii) Civil penalty.--In addition to the 
                        penalties described in subparagraphs (B) and 
                        (C), after reasonable notice and an opportunity 
                        for a hearing, that an executive officer of an 
                        entity or giant bank or company has knowingly, 
                        or with gross negligence, violated paragraph 
                        (2) or (3)(B), or contributed to the violation 
                        of a paragraph (2) or (3)(B), the Director may 
                        assess a civil penalty against the executive 
                        officer not to exceed the amount of the 
                        officer's compensation for each year during 
                        which the violations occurred.
                    ``(E) Mitigating factors.--In determining the 
                amount of any penalties assessed under this paragraph, 
                the Director of the Office of Public Integrity or the 
                court shall take into account the appropriateness of 
                the penalty with respect to--
                            ``(i) the size of financial resources and 
                        good faith of the entity, giant bank or 
                        company, or senior executive;
                            ``(ii) the gravity of the violation or 
                        failure to pay;
                            ``(iii) the history of previous violations; 
                        and
                            ``(iv) such other matters as justice may 
                        require.
                    ``(F) Authority to modify or remit penalty.--The 
                Director of the Office of Public Integrity may 
                compromise, modify, or remit any penalty under this 
                paragraph, which may be assessed or had already been 
                assessed. The amount of such penalty, when finally 
                determined, shall be exclusive of any sums owed by the 
                person to the United States in connection with the 
                costs of the proceeding, and may be deducted from any 
                sums owing by the United States to the person charged.
                    ``(G) Notice and hearing.--No civil penalty may be 
                assessed under this paragraph with respect to a 
                violation of paragraph (2) or (3)(B) unless--
                            ``(i) the Director of the Office of Public 
                        Integrity gives notice and an opportunity for a 
                        hearing to the person accused of the violation; 
                        or
                            ``(ii) the appropriate court has ordered 
                        such assessment and entered judgment in favor 
                        of the Director of the Office of Public 
                        Integrity.''.
            (2) Technical and conforming amendments.--Section 207 of 
        title 18, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d), as redesignated by paragraph 
                (1) of this subsection, is amended by striking ``(d), 
                or (e)'';
                    (B) in subsection (f)(2), as redesignated by 
                paragraph (1) of this subsection, in the second 
                sentence, by striking ``(c)(2)(A)(i) or (iii)'' and 
                inserting ``(c)'';
                    (C) in subsection (g)(1), as redesignated by 
                paragraph (1) of this subsection--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``(a), 
                        (c), and (d)'' and inserting ``(a) and (c)''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``(f)'' and inserting ``(d)''; and
                    (D) in subsection (h), as redesignated by paragraph 
                (1) of this subsection--
                            (i) by striking ``subsections (c), (d), and 
                        (e)'' each place the term appears and inserting 
                        ``subsection (c)'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (5), by striking ``(a), 
                        (c), and (d)'' and inserting ``(a) and (c)''; 
                        and
                            (iii) in paragraph (7)(B), by striking 
                        ``subsections (c), (d), or (e)'' and inserting 
                        ``subsection (c)''.
            (3) Restrictions on federal examiners of financial 
        institutions.--Section 10(k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
        Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(k)) is amended--
                    (A) in the subsection header, by striking ``One-
                year'' and inserting ``Four-Year''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``senior''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``1 
                        year'' and inserting ``4 years''.

SEC. 106. GENERAL PUBLIC INTEGRITY RULES.

    (a) Outside Employment Ban.--The limitations described in section 
502 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply 
to full-time senior government officials.
    (b) Volunteer Service Rule.--All Federal laws or regulations 
relating to conflicts of interest or other ethics issues (as defined in 
section 409 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as added by 
section 511 of this Act) shall apply to any individual who is employed 
by the Federal Government and voluntarily refuses compensation for such 
employment consistent with applicable law.
    (c) Special Government Employee Rule.--All Federal ethics rules 
shall apply to a Special Government Employee beginning on the date that 
is 61 days after the date on which the Special Government Employee 
commences employment.
    (d) Indebtedness Rule.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), no 
        senior government official (except a Member of Congress, the 
        President, and the Vice President) may--
                    (A) in the course of official duty, meet or 
                communicate with, or work on any particular matter that 
                affects, any person to whom the senior government 
                official owes more than $100,000; or
                    (B) receive a loan of more than $100,000 from any 
                person the senior government official has met or 
                communicated with, or plans to meet or communicate 
                with, during the course of their official duty.
            (2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to--
                    (A) commercial debt such as residential mortgages, 
                car loans, credit card debt, student loans, or any 
                debts owed to domestic financial institutions on terms 
                generally available to the public; or
                    (B) meetings with domestic financial institutions.

SEC. 107. LEGAL EXPENSE FUNDS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``legal expense fund'' means a fund--
                    (A) to be used to defray legal expenses incurred in 
                investigative, civil, criminal, or other legal 
                proceedings relating to or arising by virtue of service 
                by an officer or employee as an officer or employee;
                    (B) that may not be used for personal legal 
                matters, including tax planning, personal injury 
                litigation, protection of property rights, divorces, or 
                estate probate;
                    (C) that may only be used to defray legal expenses 
                for a single officer or single employee;
                    (D) that may be established or controlled by the 
                officer or employee, or by a third party, in accordance 
                with the requirements of section; and
                    (E) that may accept contributions, in accordance 
                with this section;
            (2) the term ``lobbying activity'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 
        (2 U.S.C. 1602);
            (3) the term ``officer or employee'' means--
                    (A) an officer, as defined in section 2104 of title 
                5, United States Code;
                    (B) an employee, as defined in section 2105 of 
                title 5, United States Code;
                    (C) a Member of Congress, as defined in section 
                2106 of title 5, United States Code;
                    (D) the Vice President; and
                    (E) the President;
            (4) the term ``relative'' has the meaning given that term 
        in section 3110 of title 5, United States Code; and
            (5) the term ``supervising ethics office'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 109 of the Ethics in Government Act 
        of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
    (b) Authorization for Legal Expense Funds.--Subject to the 
limitations and regulations promulgated under this section, an officer 
or employee may establish, maintain, and use a legal expense fund.
    (c) Limits on Contributions.--The Director of the Office of Public 
Integrity shall promulgate regulations establishing limits with respect 
to contributions to legal expense funds for officers or employees, 
which shall, at a minimum, prohibit an officer or employee from 
accepting contributions for a legal expense fund--
            (1) from a single contributor (other than a relative of the 
        officer or employee) in a total amount of more than $5,000 
        during any calendar year;
            (2) from a registered lobbyist;
            (3) from an agent of a foreign principal;
            (4) from any person seeking official action from or doing 
        business with the agency, office, or entity employing the 
        officer or employee;
            (5) from any person conducting activities regulated by the 
        agency, office, or entity employing the officer or employee;
            (6) from any person whose interests may be substantially 
        affected by the performance or nonperformance of the official 
        duties of the officer or employee; or
            (7) for an officer or employee of an Executive agency, from 
        any person that has engaged in lobbying activities, or on whose 
        behalf lobbying activities have been engaged with, with respect 
        to the Executive agency during the 2-year period ending on the 
        date of the contribution.
    (d) Written Notice.--
            (1) In general.--An officer or employee who wishes to 
        establish a legal expense fund shall submit to the supervising 
        ethics office with respect to the officer or employee a written 
        notice that includes--
                    (A) the name and contact information for any 
                proposed trustee of the legal expense fund;
                    (B) a copy of any proposed trust document for the 
                legal expense fund;
                    (C) the nature of the legal proceeding (or 
                proceedings) which necessitate the establishment of the 
                legal expense fund;
                    (D) an acknowledgment that the officer or employee 
                will be bound by the regulations and limitation under 
                this section; and
                    (E) an acknowledgment that the officer or employee 
                bears ultimate responsibility for proper administration 
                of the legal expense fund.
            (2) Approval.--An officer or employee may not solicit or 
        accept contributions to a legal expense fund until after the 
        supervising ethics office has received and approved the written 
        notice submitted under paragraph (1).
    (e) Reporting.--
            (1) In general.--An officer or employee who establishes a 
        legal expense fund shall submit to the supervising ethics 
        office with respect to the officer or employee a quarterly 
        report that discloses, with respect to the quarter covered by 
        the report--
                    (A) the source and amount of each contribution to 
                the legal expense fund; and
                    (B) the amount, recipient, and purpose of each 
                expenditure from the legal expense fund.
            (2) Public availability.--Each supervising ethics office 
        shall make publicly available online each report submitted 
        under paragraph (1) in a searchable, sortable, and downloadable 
        form.
    (f) Recusal.--An officer or employee in the executive branch, other 
than the President and the Vice President, who receives a contribution 
to a legal expense fund of the officer or employee may not participate 
in any matter that has or would have a direct and substantial impact on 
the person making the contribution during the 2-year period beginning 
on the date on which the contribution is received.

SEC. 108. PENALTIES.

    (a) Civil Fines.--The Attorney General or the Director of the 
Office of Public Integrity may bring a civil action in the appropriate 
United States district court against any person who engages in conduct 
constituting a violation of this title and, upon proof of such conduct 
by a preponderance of the evidence, such person shall be subject to a 
civil penalty of not more than $50,000 for each violation or the amount 
of compensation which the person received or offered for the prohibited 
conduct, whichever amount is greater. The imposition of a civil penalty 
under this subsection does not preclude any other criminal or civil 
statutory, common law, or administrative remedy, which is available by 
law to the United States or any other person.
    (b) Order Prohibiting Conduct.--If the Attorney General or the 
Director of the Office of Public Integrity has reason to believe that a 
person is engaging in conduct constituting an offense under this title, 
the Attorney General or the Director of the Office of Public Integrity, 
as applicable, may petition an appropriate United States district court 
for an order prohibiting that person from engaging in such conduct. The 
court may issue an order prohibiting that person from engaging in such 
conduct if the court finds that the conduct constitutes such an 
offense. The filing of a petition under this section does not preclude 
any other remedy which is available by law to the United States or any 
other person.

             Subtitle B--Presidential Conflicts of Interest

SEC. 111. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Presidential Conflicts of Interest 
Act of 2018''.

SEC. 112. DIVESTITURE OF PERSONAL FINANCIAL INTERESTS OF THE PRESIDENT 
              AND VICE PRESIDENT THAT POSE A POTENTIAL CONFLICT OF 
              INTEREST.

    (a) Definitions.--
            (1) In general.--In this section--
                    (A) the term ``conflict-free holding'' means a 
                financial interest described in section 102(f)(8) of 
                the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.);
                    (B) the term ``financial interest posing a 
                potential conflict of interest'' means a financial 
                interest of the President, the Vice President, the 
                spouse of the President or Vice President, or a minor 
                child of the President or Vice President, as 
                applicable, that--
                            (i) would constitute a financial interest 
                        described in subsection (a) of section 208 of 
                        title 18, United States Code--
                                    (I) if--
                                            (aa) for purposes of such 
                                        section 208, the terms 
                                        ``officer'' and ``employee'' 
                                        included the President and the 
                                        Vice President; and
                                            (bb) the President or Vice 
                                        President, as applicable, 
                                        participated as described in 
                                        subsection (a) of such section 
                                        208 in relation to such 
                                        financial interest; and
                                    (II) if determined without regard 
                                to any exception under subsection (b) 
                                of such section 208; or
                            (ii) may constitute a present, emolument, 
                        office, or title, of any kind whatever, from 
                        any king, prince, or foreign state (including 
                        from an entity owned or controlled by a foreign 
                        government), within the meaning of article I, 
                        section 9 of the Constitution of the United 
                        States;
                    (C) the term ``qualified blind trust'' has the 
                meaning given that term in section 102(f)(3) of the 
                Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), 
                unless otherwise specified in this title; and
                    (D) the term ``tax return''--
                            (i) means any Federal income tax return and 
                        any amendment or supplement thereto, including 
                        supporting schedules, attachments, or lists 
                        which are supplemental to, or part of, the 
                        return for the taxable year; and
                            (ii) includes any information return that 
                        reports information that does or may affect the 
                        liability for tax for the taxable year.
            (2) Applicability of ethics in government act of 1978.--For 
        purposes of the definition of ``qualified blind trust'' in this 
        section, the term ``supervising ethics officer'' in section 
        102(f)(3) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
        App.) means the Director of the Office of Public Integrity.
    (b) Initial Financial Disclosure.--
            (1) Submission of disclosure.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 30 days after 
                assuming the office of President or Vice President, 
                respectively, the President and Vice President shall 
                submit to Congress and the Director of the Office of 
                Public Integrity a disclosure of financial interests.
                    (B) Application to sitting president and vice 
                president.--For any individual who is serving as the 
                President or Vice President on the date of enactment of 
                this Act, the disclosure of financial interests shall 
                be submitted to Congress and the Director of the Office 
                of Public Integrity not later than 30 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Contents.--
                    (A) President.--The disclosure of financial 
                interests submitted under paragraph (1) by the 
                President shall--
                            (i) describe in detail each financial 
                        interest of the President, the spouse of the 
                        President, or a minor child of the President;
                            (ii) at a minimum, include the information 
                        relating to each such financial interest that 
                        is required for reports under section 102 of 
                        the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
                        App.); and
                            (iii) include the tax returns filed by or 
                        on behalf of the President for--
                                    (I) the 3 most recent taxable 
                                years; and
                                    (II) each taxable year for which an 
                                audit of the return by the Internal 
                                Revenue Service is pending on the date 
                                the report is filed.
                    (B) Vice president.--The disclosure of financial 
                interests submitted under paragraph (1) by the Vice 
                President shall--
                            (i) describe in detail each financial 
                        interest of the Vice President, the spouse of 
                        the Vice President, or a minor child of the 
                        Vice President;
                            (ii) at a minimum, include the information 
                        relating to each such financial interest that 
                        is required for reports under section 102 of 
                        the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
                        App.); and
                            (iii) include the tax returns filed by or 
                        on behalf of the Vice President for--
                                    (I) the 3 most recent taxable 
                                years; and
                                    (II) each taxable year for which an 
                                audit of the return by the Internal 
                                Revenue Service is pending on the date 
                                the report is filed.
    (c) Divestiture of Financial Interests Posing a Potential Conflict 
of Interest.--
            (1) In general.--The President, the Vice President, the 
        spouse of the President or Vice President, and any minor child 
        of the President or Vice President shall divest of any 
        financial interest posing a potential conflict of interest by 
        transferring such interest to a qualified blind trust.
            (2) Trustee duties.--Within a reasonable period of time 
        after the date a financial interest is transferred to a 
        qualified blind trust under paragraph (1), the trustee of the 
        qualified blind trust shall--
                    (A) sell the financial interest; and
                    (B) use the proceeds of the sale of the financial 
                interest to purchase conflict-free holdings.
    (d) Review by Office of Public Integrity.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Public 
        Integrity shall submit to Congress, the President, and the Vice 
        President an annual report regarding the financial interests of 
        the President, the Vice President, the spouse of the President 
        or Vice President, and any minor child of the President or Vice 
        President.
            (2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) indicate whether any financial interest of the 
                President, the Vice President, the spouse of the 
                President or Vice President, or a minor child of the 
                President or Vice President is a financial interest 
                posing a potential conflict of interest;
                    (B) evaluate whether any previously held financial 
                interest of the President, the Vice President, the 
                spouse of the President or Vice President, or a minor 
                child of the President or Vice President that was a 
                financial interest posing a potential conflict of 
                interest was divested in accordance with subsection 
                (c); and
                    (C) redact such information as the Director of the 
                Office of Public Integrity determines necessary for 
                preventing identity theft, such as social security 
                numbers or taxpayer identification numbers.
    (e) Enforcement.--
            (1) In general.--The Attorney General, the attorney general 
        of any State, or any person aggrieved by any violation of 
        subsection (c) may seek declaratory or injunctive relief in a 
        court of competent jurisdiction if--
                    (A) the Director of the Office of Public Integrity 
                is unable to issue a report indicating whether the 
                President or the Vice President is in substantial 
                compliance with subsection (c); or
                    (B) there is probable cause to believe that the 
                President or the Vice President has not complied with 
                subsection (c).
            (2) Fair market value.--In granting injunctive relief to 
        the plaintiff, the court shall take measures reasonably 
        necessary to ensure that any divestment procedure seeks to 
        obtain a fair market value for any asset that is liquidated.

SEC. 113. RECUSAL OF APPOINTEES.

    Section 208 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 
103 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f)(1) Any officer or employee appointed by the President shall 
recuse himself or herself from any particular matter involving specific 
parties in which a party to that matter is--
            ``(A) the President who appointed the officer or employee, 
        which shall include any entity in which the President has a 
        substantial interest; or
            ``(B) the spouse of the President who appointed the officer 
        or employee, which shall include any entity in which the spouse 
        of the President has a substantial interest.
    ``(2)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), if an officer or employee is 
recused under paragraph (1), a career appointee in the agency of the 
officer or employee shall perform the functions and duties of the 
officer or employee with respect to the matter.
    ``(B)(i) In this subparagraph, the term `Commission' means a board, 
commission, or other agency for which the authority of the agency is 
vested in more than 1 member.
    ``(ii) If the recusal of a member of a Commission from a matter 
under paragraph (1) would result in there not being a statutorily 
required quorum of members of the Commission available to participate 
in the matter, notwithstanding such statute or any other provision of 
law, the members of the Commission not recused under paragraph (1) 
may--
            ``(I) consider the matter without regard to the quorum 
        requirement under such statute;
            ``(II) delegate the authorities and responsibilities of the 
        Commission with respect to the matter to a subcommittee of the 
        Commission; or
            ``(III) designate an officer or employee of the Commission 
        who was not appointed by the President who appointed the member 
        of the Commission recused from the matter to exercise the 
        authorities and duties of the recused member with respect to 
        the matter.
    ``(3) Any officer or employee who negligently violates paragraph 
(1) shall be subject to the penalties set forth in section 216.
    ``(4) For purposes of this section, the term `particular matter' 
shall have the meaning given the term in section 207(g).''.

SEC. 114. CONTRACTS BY THE PRESIDENT OR VICE PRESIDENT.

    (a) Amendment.--Section 431 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``the President, 
        Vice President, or a'' after ``Contracts by''; and
            (2) in the first undesignated paragraph, by inserting ``the 
        President or Vice President,'' after ``Whoever, being''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
23 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking the item 
relating to section 431 and inserting the following:

``431. Contracts by the President, Vice President, or a Member of 
                            Congress.''.

SEC. 115. PRESIDENTIAL TRANSITION ETHICS PROGRAMS.

    The Presidential Transition Act of 1963 (3 U.S.C. 102 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 3(f) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(3) The President-elect shall submit to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives a list 
of--
            ``(A) any individual for whom an application for a security 
        clearance was submitted, not later than 10 days after the date 
        on which the application was submitted; and
            ``(B) any individual provided a security clearance, not 
        later than 10 days after the date on which the security 
        clearance was provided.'';
            (2) in section 4--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' 
                        at the end;
                            (ii) by redesignating paragraph (4) as 
                        paragraph (5); and
                            (iii) by inserting after paragraph (3) the 
                        following:
            ``(4) the term `nonpublic information'--
                    ``(A) means information from the Federal Government 
                that a transition member obtains as part of the 
                employment of the member that such member knows or 
                reasonably should know has not been made available to 
                the general public; and
                    ``(B) includes information that a member of the 
                transition team knows or reasonably should know--
                            ``(i) is exempt from disclosure under 
                        section 552 of title 5, United States Code, or 
                        otherwise protected from disclosure by law; and
                            ``(ii) is not authorized by the appropriate 
                        government agency or official to be released to 
                        the public; and''; and
                    (B) in subsection (g)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                        ``November'' and inserting ``October''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Ethics plan.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Each memorandum of understanding 
                under paragraph (1) shall include an agreement that the 
                eligible candidate will implement and enforce an ethics 
                plan to guide the conduct of the transition beginning 
                on the date on which the eligible candidate becomes the 
                President-elect.
                    ``(B) Contents.--The ethics plan shall include, at 
                a minimum--
                            ``(i) a description of the ethics 
                        requirements that will apply to all members of 
                        the transition team, including any specific 
                        requirement for transition team members who 
                        will have access to nonpublic or classified 
                        information;
                            ``(ii) a description of how the transition 
                        team will--
                                    ``(I) address the role on the 
                                transition team of--
                                            ``(aa) lobbyists registered 
                                        under the Lobbying Disclosure 
                                        Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et 
                                        seq.) and individuals who were 
                                        former lobbyists registered 
                                        under that Act;
                                            ``(bb) persons registered 
                                        under the Foreign Agents 
                                        Registration Act (22 U.S.C. 611 
                                        et seq.), foreign nationals, 
                                        and other foreign agents; and
                                            ``(cc) transition team 
                                        members with sources of income 
                                        or clients that are not 
                                        disclosed to the public;
                                    ``(II) prohibit a transition team 
                                member with conflicts of interest, 
                                including conflicts, as described in 
                                section 2635.402(a) and section 
                                2635.502(a) of title 5, Code of Federal 
                                Regulations, related to current or 
                                former employment, affiliations, 
                                clients, or investments, from working 
                                on particular matters involving 
                                specific parties that affect the 
                                interests of such member; and
                                    ``(III) address how the covered 
                                eligible candidate will address their 
                                own conflicts of interest during a 
                                Presidential term if the covered 
                                eligible candidate becomes the 
                                President-elect;
                            ``(iii) a Code of Ethical Conduct, to which 
                        each member of the transition team will sign 
                        and be subject to, that reflects the content of 
                        the ethics plans under this paragraph and at a 
                        minimum requires transition team members to--
                                    ``(I) seek authorization from 
                                transition team leaders or their 
                                designees before seeking, on behalf of 
                                the transition, access to any nonpublic 
                                information;
                                    ``(II) keep confidential any 
                                nonpublic information provided in the 
                                course of the duties of the member with 
                                the transition and exclusively use such 
                                information for the purposes of the 
                                transition; and
                                    ``(III) not use any nonpublic 
                                information provided in the course of 
                                transition duties, in any manner, for 
                                personal or private gain for the member 
                                or any other party at any time during 
                                or after the transition; and
                            ``(iv) a description of how the transition 
                        team will enforce the Code of Ethical Conduct, 
                        including the names of the members of the 
                        transition team responsible for enforcement, 
                        oversight, and compliance.
                    ``(C) Publicly available.--The transition team 
                shall make the ethics plan described in this paragraph 
                publicly available on the Internet website of the 
                General Services Administration the earlier of--
                            ``(i) the day on which the memorandum of 
                        understanding is completed; or
                            ``(ii) October 1.''; and
            (3) in section 6(b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``and'' at the end;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting a semicolon; 
                        and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) a list of all positions each transition team 
                member has held outside the Federal Government for the 
                previous 12-month period, including paid, unpaid, and 
                uncompensated positions;
                    ``(D) sources of compensation of each transition 
                team member exceeding $5,000 a year for the previous 
                12-month period;
                    ``(E) a description of the role of the member on 
                the transition team, including a list of any policy 
                issues that the member expects to work on, and a list 
                of agencies the member expects to interact with, while 
                serving on the transition team;
                    ``(F) a list of any issues from which each 
                transition team member will be recused while serving as 
                a member of the transition team pursuant to the 
                transition team ethics plan outlined in section 
                4(g)(3); and
                    ``(G) an affirmation that the transition team 
                member does not have a financial conflict of interest 
                that precludes the member from working on the matters 
                described in subparagraph (E).'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``not later than 
                2 business days'' after ``public''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) The head of a Federal department or agency, or their 
        designee, shall not permit access to the agency or employees of 
        the agency that would not be provided to a member of the public 
        for any transition team member who does not make the 
        disclosures listed under paragraph (1).''.

SEC. 116. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.

    It is the sense of Congress that a violation of section 102 of this 
Act or the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) by the 
President or the Vice President would constitute a high crime or 
misdemeanor under article II, section 4 of the Constitution of the 
United States.

SEC. 117. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this title or an amendment made by this title shall be 
construed to violate the Constitution of the United States.

SEC. 118. SEVERABILITY.

    If any provision of this title or any amendment made by this title, 
or any application of such provision or amendment to any person or 
circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional, the remainder of the 
provisions of this title and the amendments made by this title, and the 
application of the provision or amendment to any other person or 
circumstance, shall not be affected.

                       TITLE II--LOBBYING REFORM

SEC. 201. ENFORCEMENT BY THE OFFICE OF PUBLIC INTEGRITY.

    The Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 4 (2 U.S.C. 1603)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``Secretary 
                of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of 
                Representatives'' and inserting ``Director of the 
                Office of Public Integrity''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d), in the flush text following 
                paragraph (2), by striking ``Secretary of the Senate 
                and the Clerk of the House of Representatives'' and 
                inserting ``Director of the Office of Public 
                Integrity'';
            (2) in section 5 (2 U.S.C. 1604)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Secretary of 
                the Senate and the Clerk of the House of 
                Representatives'' and inserting ``Director of the 
                Office of Public Integrity'';
                    (B) in subsection (d)(1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``Secretary of the Senate 
                and the Clerk of the House of Representatives'' and 
                inserting ``Director of the Office of Public 
                Integrity''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) by striking ``Secretary of the Senate 
                        or the Clerk of the House of Representatives'' 
                        and inserting ``Director of the Office of 
                        Public Integrity''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Secretary of the Senate 
                        and the Clerk of the House of Representatives'' 
                        and inserting ``Director of the Office of 
                        Public Integrity'';
            (3) in section 6(a) (2 U.S.C. 1605(a)), in the matter 
        preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``Secretary of the Senate 
        and the Clerk of the House of Representatives'' and inserting 
        ``Director of the Office of Public Integrity'';
            (4) in section 7(a)(1) (2 U.S.C. 1606(a)(1)), by striking 
        ``Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House of 
        Representatives'' and inserting ``Director of the Office of 
        Public Integrity''; and
            (5) in section 8(c) (2 U.S.C. 1607(c)), by striking 
        ``Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House of 
        Representatives'' and inserting ``Director of the Office of 
        Public Integrity''.

SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1602) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (16) as 
        paragraphs (6) through (18), respectively;
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) Corporate lobbyist.--The term `corporate lobbyist' 
        means a lobbyist that, for financial or other compensation for 
        services that include lobbying activities, is employed or 
        retained by a client that is--
                    ``(A) a covered for-profit entity; or
                    ``(B) an entity described in section 501(c)(6) of 
                the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 of which 1 or more 
                members are covered for-profit entities.'';
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (4), as so redesignated, 
        the following:
            ``(5) Covered for-profit entity.--The term `covered for-
        profit entity'--
                    ``(A) means--
                            ``(i) a corporation, limited liability 
                        company, or other entity that is created by the 
                        filing of a public document with a secretary of 
                        state of a State or similar office;
                            ``(ii) a general partnership; or
                            ``(iii) any similar entity formed under the 
                        laws of a foreign jurisdiction; and
                    ``(B) does not include--
                            ``(i) an entity described in paragraph (3), 
                        (4), or (5) of section 501(c) of the Internal 
                        Revenue Code of 1986; and
                            ``(ii) a political organization, as defined 
                        in section 527 of such Code, that is exempt 
                        from taxation under that section.'';
            (5) in paragraph (9), as so redesignated, by inserting 
        ``provision of strategic advice, and'' after ``planning 
        activities,'';
            (6) in paragraph (10)(B), as so redesignated--
                    (A) by striking clause (v); and
                    (B) by redesignating clauses (vi) through (xix) as 
                clauses (v) through (xviii), respectively; and
            (7) by striking paragraph (12), as so redesignated, and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(12) Lobbyist.--The term `lobbyist'--
                    ``(A) means an individual who is employed or 
                retained by a client for financial or other 
                compensation--
                            ``(i) for services that include making 1 or 
                        more lobbying contacts; or
                            ``(ii) to engage in lobbying activities 
                        that do not include making lobbying contacts; 
                        and
                    ``(B) includes a corporate lobbyist.''.

SEC. 203. REGISTRATION OF LOBBYISTS.

    Section 4 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1603) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``45'' and inserting 
                        ``30'';
                            (ii) by striking ``first makes a lobbying 
                        contact'' and all that follows through 
                        ``retained to make a lobbying contact'' and 
                        inserting ``is first employed or retained to 
                        engage in lobbying activities on behalf of a 
                        client or first engages in lobbying 
                        activities''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``45th'' each place the 
                        term appears and inserting ``30th'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by redesignating clauses (i) 
                                and (ii) as subclauses (I) and (II), 
                                respectively, and adjusting the margins 
                                accordingly;
                                    (II) in the matter preceding 
                                subclause (I), as so redesignated, by 
                                striking ``entity whose--'' and 
                                inserting the following: ``entity--
                            ``(i) of which the--'';
                                    (III) in clause (i), as so 
                                designated--
                                            (aa) in subclause (I), as 
                                        so redesignated, by inserting 
                                        ``, as estimated under section 
                                        5'' after ``$2,500''; and
                                            (bb) in subclause (II), as 
                                        so redesignated, by inserting 
                                        ``as estimated under section 5; 
                                        or'' after ``$10,000,'';
                                    (IV) by inserting after clause 
                                (i)(II), as so designated, the 
                                following:
                            ``(ii) that engages in lobbying activities 
                        for less than 8 hours,''; and
                                    (V) in the flush text following 
                                clause (ii)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``(as 
                                        estimated under section 5)''; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) by striking ``with 
                                        respect to such client'' and 
                                        inserting ``, in the case of a 
                                        person or entity described in 
                                        subclause (I) or (II) of clause 
                                        (i), with respect to such 
                                        client, or, in the case of a 
                                        person or entity described in 
                                        clause (ii), with respect to 
                                        any client of the person or 
                                        entity.''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``subparagraph (A)'' and inserting 
                        ``subparagraph (A)(i)'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (4);
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) as 
                paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively;
                    (C) in paragraph (4), as so redesignated--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``the general 
                                issues areas'' and inserting ``each 
                                specific issue area''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``and'' at the 
                                end;
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                        subparagraph (C);
                            (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following:
                    ``(B) each specific action or inaction that, as of 
                the date of the registration, has already been 
                requested, or that will be requested;''; and
                            (iv) in subparagraph (C), as so 
                        redesignated--
                                    (I) by striking ``to the extent 
                                practicable, specific issues that 
                                have'' and inserting ``each specific 
                                issue, including any Federal 
                                legislation, rule, or regulation, or 
                                Executive order, that has''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``are'' and 
                                inserting ``is'';
                    (D) in paragraph (5), as so redesignated, by 
                striking the period and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (E) by inserting after paragraph (5), as so 
                redesignated, the following:
            ``(6) the name of each covered legislative branch official 
        or covered executive branch official who, as of the date of the 
        registration, has already been contacted, or is likely to be 
        contacted, in any lobbying activity on behalf of the client; 
        and
            ``(7) with respect to any person or entity that, as of the 
        date of the registration, or has been retained, by the 
        registrant to engage in any lobbying activity on behalf of the 
        client of the registrant--
                    ``(A) the name, address, business telephone number, 
                and principal place of business of the person or 
                entity;
                    ``(B) a description of any lobbying contact that, 
                as of the date of the registration, has been made in, 
                or is likely to be made, on behalf of the client of the 
                registrant by the person or entity;
                    ``(C) with respect to the lobbying activity on 
                behalf of the client of the registrant, the amount that 
                the registrant, as of the date of the registration, has 
                paid, or is likely to pay, to the person or entity as 
                compensation for the lobbying activity; and
                    ``(D) the name of each employee of the person or 
                entity who, as of the date of the registration, has 
                supervised, or who is likely to supervise, any lobbying 
                activity on behalf of the client of the registrant.''; 
                and
            (3) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
    ``(c) Multiple Clients.--In the case of a registrant that engages 
in lobbying activities on behalf of more than 1 client, the registrant 
shall file a separate registration for each client.''.

SEC. 204. REPORTS BY LOBBYISTS.

    (a) Quarterly Reports.--Section 5(b) of the Lobbying Disclosure Act 
of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1604(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) a statement of--
                    ``(A) each specific issue with respect to which the 
                registrant, or any employee of the registrant, engaged 
                in lobbying activities, including, to the maximum 
                extent practicable, a statement of each bill number and 
                reference to any specific Federal rule or regulation, 
                Executive order, or any other program, policy, or 
                position of the United States Government;
                    ``(B) each lobbying activity that the registrant 
                has engaged in on behalf of the client, including--
                            ``(i) each document prepared by the 
                        registrant that was submitted to any covered 
                        legislative branch official or covered 
                        executive branch official;
                            ``(ii) each meeting conducted that 
                        constituted a lobbying contact, including the 
                        subject of the meeting, the date of the 
                        meeting, and the name and position of each 
                        individual who was a party to the meeting;
                            ``(iii) each phone call made that 
                        constituted a lobbying contact, including the 
                        subject of the phone call, the date of the 
                        phone call, and the name and position of each 
                        individual who was a party to the phone call; 
                        and
                            ``(iv) each email sent that constituted a 
                        lobbying contact, including the subject of the 
                        email, the date of the email, and the name and 
                        position of each individual who was a party to 
                        the email;
                    ``(C) the name of each employee of the registrant 
                who did not participate in the lobbying contact but 
                engaged in lobbying activities in support of the 
                lobbying contact and a description of any such lobbying 
                activity; and
                    ``(D) with respect to any person or entity retained 
                by the registrant to engage in lobbying activities on 
                behalf of the client of the registrant--
                            ``(i) the name, address, business telephone 
                        number, and principal place of business of the 
                        person or entity;
                            ``(ii) a description of any lobbying 
                        activity by the person or entity on behalf of 
                        the client of the registrant;
                            ``(iii) the amount the registrant paid to 
                        the person or entity for any lobbying activity 
                        by the person or entity on the behalf of the 
                        client of the registrant;
                            ``(iv) the name of each employee of the 
                        person or entity who supervised any lobbying 
                        activity by the person or entity on behalf of 
                        the client of the registrant; and
                            ``(v) the official action or inaction 
                        requested in the course of the lobbying 
                        activity;''.
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (3) in paragraph (5), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) a copy of any document transmitted to a covered 
        legislative branch official or a covered executive branch 
        official in the course of any lobbying activity by the 
        registrant on behalf of the client.''.
    (b) Estimates Based on Tax Reporting System.--Section 15 of the 
Lobbying Disclosure Act (2 U.S.C. 1610) is repealed.

SEC. 205. PROHIBITION ON FOREIGN LOBBYING.

    (a) In General.--The Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 
et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating section 26 (2 U.S.C. 1614) as section 
        28; and
            (2) by inserting after section 25 (2 U.S.C. 1613) the 
        following:

``SEC. 26. PROHIBITION ON FOREIGN LOBBYING.

    ``(a) Definition.--In this section--
            ``(1) the term `covered lobbyist' means--
                    ``(A) a lobbyist that is registered or is required 
                to register under section 4(a)(1);
                    ``(B) an organization that employs 1 or more 
                lobbyists and is registered, or is required to 
                register, under section 4(a)(2); and
                    ``(C) an employee listed or required to be listed 
                as a lobbyist by a registrant under section 4(b)(6) or 
                5(b)(2)(C); and
            ``(2) the terms `information-service employee', `public-
        relations counsel', and `publicity agent' have the meanings 
        given those terms in section 1 of the Foreign Agents 
        Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 611).
    ``(b) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (c), a covered 
lobbyist may not accept financial or other compensation for services 
that include lobbying activities on behalf of a foreign entity.
    ``(c) Exemptions.--The prohibition under subsection (b) shall not 
apply the following covered lobbyists:
            ``(1) Diplomatic or consular officers.--A duly accredited 
        diplomatic or consular officer of a foreign government who is 
        so recognized by the Department of State, while the officer is 
        engaged exclusively in activities that are recognized by the 
        Department of State as being within the scope of the functions 
        of the officer.
            ``(2) Officials of foreign governments.--An official of a 
        foreign government, if that government is recognized by the 
        United States, who is not a public-relations counsel, a 
        publicity agent, or an information-service employee, or a 
        citizen of the United States, whose name and status and the 
        character of whose duties as an official are of public record 
        in the Department of State, while said official is engaged 
        exclusively in activities that are recognized by the Department 
        of State as being within the scope of the functions of the 
        official.
            ``(3) Staff members of diplomatic or consular officers.--A 
        member of the staff of, or any person employed by, a duly 
        accredited diplomatic or consular officer of a foreign 
        government who is so recognized by the Department of State, 
        other than a public-relations counsel, a publicity agent, or an 
        information-service employee, whose name and status and the 
        character of whose duties as such member or employee are of 
        public record in the Department of State, while the member or 
        employee is engaged exclusively in the performance of 
        activities that are recognized by the Department of State as 
        being within the scope of the functions of the member or 
        employee.
            ``(4) Persons engaging or agreeing to engage in the 
        soliciting or collecting of funds for humanitarian relief.--A 
        person engaging or agreeing to engage only in the soliciting or 
        collecting of funds and contributions within the United States 
        to be used only for medical aid and assistance, or for food and 
        clothing to relieve human suffering, if the solicitation or 
        collection of funds and contributions is in accordance with, 
        and subject to, the provisions of the Neutrality Act of 1939 
        (22 U.S.C. 441 et seq.), and such rules and regulations as may 
        be prescribed thereunder.
            ``(5) Certain persons qualified to practice law.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A person qualified to practice 
                law, insofar as the person engages, or agrees to engage 
                in, the legal representation of a disclosed foreign 
                entity before any court of law or any agency of the 
                Government of the United States.
                    ``(B) Legal representation.--For the purpose of 
                this paragraph, legal representation does not include 
                any attempt to influence or persuade agency personnel 
                or officials other than in the course of--
                            ``(i) a judicial proceeding;
                            ``(ii) a criminal or civil law enforcement 
                        inquiry, investigation, or proceeding; or
                            ``(iii) an agency proceeding required by 
                        statute or regulation to be conducted on the 
                        record.
    ``(d) Penalties.--Any person who knowingly violates this section 
shall be fined not more than $200,000, imprisoned for not more than 5 
years, or both, and any compensation received for engaging in the 
unlawful activity shall be subject to disgorgement.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 7 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act 
of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1606) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``Whoever'' and inserting ``Except as 
        otherwise provided in this Act, whoever''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``Whoever'' and 
        inserting ``Except as otherwise provided in this Act, 
        whoever''.

SEC. 206. PROHIBITION OF CONTRIBUTIONS BY LOBBYISTS.

    Title III of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 
30101 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:

``SEC. 325. PROHIBITION OF CONTRIBUTIONS BY LOBBYISTS.

    ``(a) In General.--It shall be unlawful for any lobbyist to make a 
contribution to any candidate for Federal office or Member of Congress.
    ``(b) Lobbyist Defined.--In this section, the term `lobbyist' means 
a lobbyist, as defined in section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1602), that is registered or is required to register 
under section 4(a) of that Act.''.

SEC. 207. PROHIBITION ON CONTINGENT FEE LOBBYING.

    The Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) is 
amended by inserting after section 26, as added by section 205, the 
following:

``SEC. 27. PROHIBITION ON CONTINGENT FEE ARRANGEMENTS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section, the term `covered lobbyist' 
means--
            ``(1) a lobbyist that is registered or is required to 
        register under section 4(a)(1);
            ``(2) an organization that employs 1 or more lobbyists and 
        is registered, or is required to register, under section 
        4(a)(2); and
            ``(3) an employee listed or required to be listed as a 
        lobbyist by a registrant under section 4(b)(6) or 5(b)(2)(C).
    ``(b) Prohibition.--A covered lobbyist may not be employed under, 
or receive compensation in connection with, an arrangement in which 
compensation paid to the covered lobbyist is contingent on the result 
of lobbying activities engaged in by the covered lobbyist.
    ``(c) Penalties.--Any person who knowingly violates this section 
shall be fined not more than $200,000, imprisoned for not more than 5 
years, or both, and any compensation received for engaging in the 
unlawful activity shall be subject to disgorgement.''.

SEC. 208. PROHIBITION ON PROVISION OF GIFTS OR TRAVEL BY REGISTERED 
              LOBBYISTS.

    Section 25 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1613) 
is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``to members of 
        congress and to congressional employees'';
            (2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (c), a person 
described in subsection (b) may not make a gift or provide travel to a 
covered legislative branch official or a covered executive branch 
official.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Exceptions.--A person described in subsection (b) may make a 
gift or provide travel to a covered legislative branch official or a 
covered executive branch official if--
            ``(1) the gift or travel complies with any applicable rule 
        of the Senate, House of Representatives, or executive branch 
        applicable to the recipient of the gift or travel; and
            ``(2) the gift or travel--
                    ``(A) is based on the personal or family 
                relationship of the person with the covered legislative 
                branch official or a covered executive branch official 
                and is given with the knowledge and acquiescence of the 
                covered legislative branch official or a covered 
                executive branch official, unless the covered 
                legislative branch official or a covered executive 
                branch official has reason to believe that the gift or 
                travel was given because of the official position of 
                the covered legislative branch official or a covered 
                executive branch official;
                    ``(B) is a discount or similar benefit;
                    ``(C) results from the business or employment 
                activities of the spouse of the covered legislative 
                branch official or a covered executive branch official;
                    ``(D) is a gift or travel customarily provided by a 
                prospective employer in connection with bona fide 
                employment discussions;
                    ``(E) in the case of a covered executive branch 
                official, is of a kind authorized by a supplemental 
                agency regulation that is--
                            ``(i) issued by the agency that employs the 
                        covered executive branch official; and
                            ``(ii) approved by the Director of the 
                        Office of Public Integrity; or
                    ``(F) may be accepted by the covered legislative 
                branch official or covered executive branch official 
                under specific Federal statutory authority.''.

SEC. 209. APPLICATION OF GENERAL SCHEDULE TO CONGRESS.

    (a) In General.--Section 5331 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``this subchapter, 
        `agency', `employee', `position','' and inserting the 
        following: ``this subchapter--
            ``(1) `agency'--
                    ``(A) has the meaning given that term in section 
                5102 of this title; and
                    ``(B) includes--
                            ``(i) the Government Accountability Office; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) any agency, office, or other entity 
                        for which the pay of the employees of the 
                        agency, office, or other entity is disbursed by 
                        the Secretary of the Senate or the Chief 
                        Administrative Officer of the House of 
                        Representatives;
            ``(2) `employee'--
                    ``(A) means an individual employed in or under an 
                agency; and
                    ``(B) does not include a Member of Congress; and
            ``(3) `position',''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by inserting ``and employees in 
        positions in an agency described in subsection (a)(1)(B)'' 
        after ``chapter 51 applies''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 5 of the Federal Pay Comparability Act of 1970 
        (2 U.S.C. 4531) is repealed.
            (2) Section 311 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
        Act, 1988 (2 U.S.C. 4532) is repealed.
            (3) Sections 471 and 475 of the Legislative Reorganization 
        Act of 1970 (2 U.S.C. 4533, 4534) are repealed.
            (4) Section 4 of the Federal Pay Comparability Act of 1970 
        (2 U.S.C. 4571) is repealed.
            (5) Section 107 of the Legislative Branch Appropriation 
        Act, 1977 (2 U.S.C. 4572) is repealed.
            (6) Section 315 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
        Act, 1991 (2 U.S.C. 4573) is repealed.
            (7) Section 105 of the Legislative Branch Appropriation 
        Act, 1968 (2 U.S.C. 4575) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (a);
                    (B) by striking subsection (c);
                    (C) by striking subsection (e); and
                    (D) by striking subsection (f).
            (8) Section 114 of the Legislative Branch Appropriation 
        Act, 1978 (2 U.S.C. 4576) is amended by striking ``maximum rate 
        specified'' and all that follows and inserting ``rate payable 
        for a position at level 15, step 10 of the General Schedule.''.
            (9) Section 102(c)(2)(B) of the Legislative Branch 
        Appropriations Act, 2002 (2 U.S.C. 4579(c)(2)(B)) is amended by 
        striking ``exceeding'' and all that follows and inserting 
        ``exceeding \1/12th\ of the maximum annual rate of pay that is 
        payable for positions on the General Schedule under section 
        5304(g)(1) of title 5, United States Code.''.

SEC. 210. REESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 12(a) of the 
Technology Assessment Act of 1972 (2 U.S.C. 481(a)) is amended by 
striking ``there is hereby'' and all that follows through the period at 
the end and inserting ``for each fiscal year there is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Office such sums as may be necessary.''.
    (b) Initial Appointments.--Not later than 60 days after the date on 
which appropriations are made available to reestablish the Office of 
Technology Assessment, the President pro tempore of the Senate and the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint the members of 
the Technology Assessment Board in accordance with section 4(a) of the 
Technology Assessment Act of 1972 (2 U.S.C. 473(a)).
    (c) Initial Recommendations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date on 
        which all members of the Technology Assessment Board are 
        appointed under subsection (b), and after reviewing 
        recommendations relating to the reestablishment of the Office 
        of Technology Assessment and meeting with relevant 
        stakeholders, the Technology Assessment Board shall submit to 
        Congress recommendations concerning how Congress should enhance 
        technology assessment support for the legislative branch, 
        including whether Congress should enact new or revised 
        authorities that address resources, function, structure, or 
        other matters the Technology Assessment Board determines 
        appropriate.
            (2) Review.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which 
        Congress receives the recommendations under paragraph (1), each 
        committee of the Senate or the House of Representatives with 
        jurisdiction of any issue relating to technology assessment 
        support for the legislative branch shall hold a hearing with 
        respect to the recommendations.
    (d) Adjustments to Other Laws.--
            (1) Annual reports.--Section 3003(a)(1) of the Federal 
        Reports Elimination and Sunset Act of 1995 (31 U.S.C. 1113 
        note) shall not apply to any report submitted under section 11 
        of the Technology Assessment Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-48, 86 
        Stat. 802).
            (2) Information for the congressional budget office.--
        Section 201(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
        U.S.C. 601(e)) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``the Office of Technology 
                Assessment,'' after ``Government Accountability 
                Office,''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``the Technology Assessment 
                Board,'' after ``Comptroller General,''.
            (3) Inclusion as an instrumentality of congress.--Section 
        510(4) of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 
        U.S.C. 12209(4)) is amended by striking ``following:,'' and 
        inserting ``following: the Office of Technology Assessment,''.
    (e) Technical Amendments.--Section 7(e)(1) of the Technology 
Assessment Act of 1972 (2 U.S.C. 476(e)(1)) is amended by striking 
``section 5702 and in 5704 of title 5'' and inserting ``sections 5702 
and 5704 of title 5, United States Code''.

SEC. 211. PROGRESSIVE TAX ON LOBBYING EXPENDITURES.

    (a) Tax Provisions Relating to Lobbying Expenditures.--
            (1) Excise tax on expenditures for lobbying activities.--
                    (A) In general.--Chapter 33 of the Internal Revenue 
                Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after subchapter C 
                the following new subchapter:

                  ``Subchapter D--Lobbying Activities

``Sec. 4286. Imposition of tax.

``SEC. 4286. IMPOSITION OF TAX.

    ``(a) In General.--There is hereby imposed on quarterly lobbying 
expenditures in excess of $125,000 a tax determined in accordance with 
the following table:

``If quarterly lobbying             The tax is:
 expenditures are:
    Over $125,000 but not over 
        $250,000.
                                        35% of the quarterly lobbying 
                                                expenditures in excess 
                                                of $125,000.
    Over $250,000 but not over 
        $1,250,000.
                                        $43,750, plus 60% of the excess 
                                                over $250,000.
    Over $1,250,000................
                                        $643,750, plus 75% of the 
                                                excess over $1,250,000.

    ``(b) Exception.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        tax imposed by this section shall not apply to any organization 
        described in section 501(c) and exempt from tax under section 
        501(a).
            ``(2) Application to certain business organizations.--
        Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any organization which--
                    ``(A) is described in section 501(c)(6) and exempt 
                from tax under section 501(a), and
                    ``(B) has as a member of such organization an 
                organization that is not described in section 501(c) 
                and exempt from tax under section 501(a).
    ``(c) Payment of Tax.--The tax imposed by this section shall be 
paid by the person paying for the quarterly lobbying expenditures.
    ``(d) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`quarterly lobbying expenditures' means, with respect to any calendar 
quarter, the expenditures paid or incurred for lobbying activities (as 
defined under section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995) during 
such calendar quarter.
    ``(e) Special Rule.--For purposes of this section, all persons 
treated as a single employer under subsection (a) or (b) of section 52 
shall be treated as a single person.''.
                    (B) Conforming amendment.--The table of subchapters 
                for chapter 33 of such Code is amended by inserting 
                after the item related to subchapter C the following 
                new item:

                 ``subchapter d--lobbying activities''.

                    (C) Effective date.--The amendments made by this 
                paragraph shall apply to amounts paid or incurred in 
                calendar quarters beginning more than 60 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Modification of definition of influencing legislation 
        for purposes of restrictions on certain charitable 
        organizations.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 4911(e)(2) of the Internal 
                Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
                            (i) by striking ``includes action with 
                        respect to Acts, bills'' and inserting 
                        ``includes--
                            ``(i) the formulation, modification, or 
                        adoption of Acts, bills''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraphs:
                            ``(ii) the formulation, modification, or 
                        adoption of a Federal rule, regulation, 
                        Executive order, or any other program, policy, 
                        or position of the United States Government,
                            ``(iii) the administration or execution of 
                        a Federal program or policy (including the 
                        negotiation, award, or administration of a 
                        Federal contract, grant, loan, permit, or 
                        license), and
                            ``(iv) the nomination or confirmation of a 
                        person for a position subject to confirmation 
                        by the Senate.''.
                    (B) Conforming amendments.--Section 4911(e) of such 
                Code is amended by striking paragraph (3) and 
                redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).
                    (C) Effective date.--The amendments made by this 
                paragraph shall take effect 180 days after the date of 
                the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Lobbying Defense Trust Fund.--
            (1) Establishment of fund.--
                    (A) In general.--Subchapter A of chapter 98 of the 
                Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at 
                the end the following new section:

``SEC. 9512. LOBBYING DEFENSE TRUST FUND.

    ``(a) In General.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
United States a trust fund to be known as the `Lobbying Defense Trust 
Fund', consisting of any amount appropriated or credited to the Trust 
Fund as provided in this section or section 9602(b).
    ``(b) Transfers to Trust Fund.--There is hereby appropriated to the 
Lobbying Defense Trust Fund amounts equivalent to--
            ``(1) the taxes received in the Treasury under section 
        4286, and
            ``(2) the civil penalties collected under the Anti-
        Corruption and Public Integrity Act and the amendments made by 
        that Act.
    ``(c) Availability.--Amounts transferred to the Lobbying Defense 
Trust Fund shall--
            ``(1) remain available until expended; and
            ``(2) be used, without further appropriation, by the 
        Director of the Office of Public Integrity in accordance with 
        subsection (d).
    ``(d) Use of Funds.--
            ``(1) Transfers to agencies.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For each calendar quarter 
                beginning more than 60 days after the date of the 
                enactment of this section, not later than 30 days after 
                the end of the quarter, the Director of the Office of 
                Public Integrity (in this subsection referred to as the 
                `Director') shall identify specific rules or other 
                agency actions that were the subject of significant 
                lobbying activity directed toward an executive agency 
                during the quarter.
                    ``(B) Transfer.--Not later than the end of each 
                calendar quarter beginning more than 60 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this section, the Director 
                shall transfer from the Lobbying Defense Trust Fund to 
                each executive agency that was the subject of 
                significant lobbying activity during the previous 
                quarter an amount equal to the amount obtained by 
                multiplying--
                            ``(i) the amount of taxes received in the 
                        Treasury under section 4286 that are 
                        attributable to lobbying expenditures during 
                        the previous quarter; by
                            ``(ii) the percentage of such taxes that 
                        were based on lobbying expenditures during the 
                        previous quarter related to rulemaking within 
                        the jurisdiction of the executive agency.
                    ``(C) Use of transferred funds.--An executive 
                agency may use amounts transferred under subparagraph 
                (B) for salaries and expenses relating to researching, 
                reviewing, or finalizing rules or other agency actions 
                in accordance with section 553 or 554 of title 5, 
                United States Code.
                    ``(D) Availability.--Amounts transferred under 
                subparagraph (B) shall remain available until expended.
            ``(2) Office of the public advocate.--
                    ``(A) Budget submission.--For each fiscal year 
                beginning more than 60 days after the date of enactment 
                of this section, the National Public Advocate shall 
                submit to the Director a request--
                            ``(i) indicating the amount the National 
                        Public Advocate is requesting be transferred to 
                        the Office of the Public Advocate; and
                            ``(ii) describing the activities of the 
                        Office of the Public Advocate that would be 
                        carried out using the amounts.
                    ``(B) Transfer.--After consideration of the request 
                submitted under subparagraph (A) with respect to a 
                fiscal year, the Director shall transfer to the Office 
                of the Public Advocate from the Lobbying Defense Trust 
                Fund the amount determined appropriate by the Director.
                    ``(C) Use of funds.--Amounts transferred under 
                subparagraph (B) may be used for any authorized 
                activity of the Office of the Public Advocate, 
                including salaries and expenses.
                    ``(D) Availability.--Amounts transferred under 
                subparagraph (B) shall remain available until expended.
            ``(3) Congressional support agencies.--
                    ``(A) Transfer.--Not later than the end of each 
                calendar quarter beginning more than 60 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this section, the Director 
                shall transfer from the Lobbying Defense Trust Fund to 
                the Congressional Research Service, the Congressional 
                Budget Office, the Government Accountability Office, 
                and the Office of Technology Assessment an amount equal 
                to 25 percent of the difference between--
                            ``(i) the amount of taxes received in the 
                        Treasury under section 4286 that are 
                        attributable to lobbying expenditures during 
                        the previous quarter; and
                            ``(ii) the amount of such taxes that were 
                        based on lobbying expenditures during the 
                        previous quarter related to rulemaking within 
                        the jurisdiction of an executive agency.
                    ``(B) Use of funds.--Amounts transferred under 
                subparagraph (A) may be used for any authorized 
                activity of the agency receiving the amounts, including 
                salaries and expenses.
                    ``(C) Availability.--Amounts transferred under 
                subparagraph (A) shall remain available until expended.
            ``(4) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Director shall promulgate 
        regulations defining the term `significant lobbying activity' 
        for purposes of this subsection.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for 
        subchapter A of chapter 98 of such Code is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

``Sec. 9512. Lobbying Defense Trust Fund.''.
            (3) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 212. DISCLOSURE OF REGISTRATION STATUS.

    Section 14 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1609) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) Lobbying Contacts.--Any person or entity that makes a 
lobbying contact with a covered legislative branch official or a 
covered executive branch official shall, at the time of the lobbying 
contact, state whether the person or entity is registered under this 
Act and identify the client on whose behalf the lobbying contact is 
made.''; and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).

                      TITLE III--RULEMAKING REFORM

SEC. 301. DISCLOSURE OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.

    (a) In General.--Section 553 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (c), in the first sentence, by inserting 
        ``, subject to subsections (f) and (h),'' after ``the agency 
        shall''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) With respect to any submission by an interested person under 
subsection (c) or any other submission by an interested person relating 
to a proposed rule that incorporates or includes a scientific or 
technical study, or any other result of scientific research not 
published in a publicly available peer-reviewed publication, the 
interested person, in making that submission, shall disclose--
            ``(1) the source of the funding for that study or research, 
        as applicable;
            ``(2) any entity that sponsored the study or research;
            ``(3) the extent to which the findings of the study or 
        research were reviewed by a party that may be affected by the 
        rulemaking to which the submission relates;
            ``(4) the identity of any party identified under paragraph 
        (3); and
            ``(5) the nature of any financial relationship, including a 
        consulting agreement, the support of any expert witness, and 
        the funding of research, between any person that conducted the 
        study or research and any interested person with respect to the 
        rulemaking to which the submission relates.''.
    (b) Application.--Section 553(f) of title 5, United States Code, as 
added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to submissions made 
by interested persons on and after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 302. INCREASING DISCLOSURES RELATING TO STUDIES AND RESEARCH.

    (a) In General.--Section 553 of title 5, United States Code, as 
amended by section 301 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(g) With respect to a study or research that is submitted by an 
interested person to an agency under subsection (c), the agency shall 
ensure that the study or research is available to the public, unless 
disclosure is prohibited under section 552 of this title.
    ``(h)(1) If a study or research submitted by an interested person 
to an agency under subsection (c) presents a conflict described in 
paragraph (2), the agency shall not consider the study or research in a 
rulemaking under this section and shall exclude the study or research 
from consideration, unless the interested person has certified, under 
standards developed by the National Academy of Sciences with respect to 
that certification, that the study or research has undergone 
independent peer review.
    ``(2) A conflict described in this paragraph means a study or 
research for which--
            ``(A) not less than 20 percent of the funding for the study 
        or research is from an entity that is regulated by the agency; 
        or
            ``(B) an entity that is regulated by the agency exercises 
        editorial control over the study or research.
    ``(i) With respect to a rulemaking under this section, an agency 
shall include in the notice of proposed rulemaking required under 
subsection (b) and in the final rule published under subsection (d) a 
description of how the agency considered scientific evidence, including 
any study or research.''.
    (b) Application.--Subsections (g), (h), and (i) of section 553 of 
title 5, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply 
with respect to submissions made by interested persons on and after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 303. DISCLOSURE OF INTER-GOVERNMENTAL RULE CHANGES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of 
        the Office;
            (2) the terms ``agency'', ``regulatory action'', and 
        ``significant regulatory action'' have the meanings given those 
        terms in section 3 of the Executive Order;
            (3) the term ``Executive Order'' means Executive Order 
        12866 (5 U.S.C. 601 note; relating to regulatory planning and 
        review); and
            (4) the term ``Office'' means the Office of Information and 
        Regulatory Affairs.
    (b) Requirement.--With respect to any regulatory action that an 
agency provides to the Office under section 6(a)(3) of the Executive 
Order, and that the Administrator determines is a significant 
regulatory action under that section, the agency shall--
            (1) not later than the date on which the agency publishes 
        the general notice of proposed rulemaking required under 
        section 553(b) of title 5, United States Code, with respect to 
        the action, place in the rulemaking docket--
                    (A) the substance of any changes between the text 
                of the draft regulatory action that the agency provided 
                to the Office under section 6(a)(3)(B)(i) of the 
                Executive Order and the text published in that general 
                notice with respect to the action; and
                    (B) a statement regarding whether any change 
                described in subparagraph (A) was made at the request 
                of--
                            (i) the Office;
                            (ii) another agency; or
                            (iii) a Member of Congress; and
            (2) not later than the date on which the agency publishes 
        the regulatory action in the Federal Register, place in the 
        rulemaking docket--
                    (A) the substance of any changes between the text 
                of the regulatory action that the agency provided to 
                the Office under section 6(a)(3)(B)(i) of the Executive 
                Order and the text of the regulatory action that the 
                agency published in the Federal Register; and
                    (B) a statement regarding whether any change 
                described in subparagraph (A) was made at the request 
                of--
                            (i) the Office;
                            (ii) another agency; or
                            (iii) a Member of Congress.

SEC. 304. JUSTIFICATION OF WITHDRAWN RULES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of 
        the Office;
            (2) the terms ``agency'' and ``regulatory action'' have the 
        meanings given those terms in section 3 of the Executive Order;
            (3) the term ``Executive Order'' means Executive Order 
        12866 (5 U.S.C. 601 note; relating to regulatory planning and 
        review); and
            (4) the term ``Office'' means the Office of Information and 
        Regulatory Affairs.
    (b) Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--If an agency withdraws a regulatory action 
        after providing the action to the Office under section 6(a)(3) 
        of the Executive Order (or, if the agency does not provide the 
        regulatory action to the Office under that section, after 
        publishing the general notice of proposed rulemaking with 
        respect to the action under section 553(b) of title 5, United 
        States Code), the agency shall publish in the Federal Register 
        and on the website of the agency a statement regarding the 
        decision by the agency to withdraw the action.
            (2) Contents.--A statement required under paragraph (1) 
        with respect to a decision by an agency to withdraw a 
        regulatory action shall include, at a minimum--
                    (A) a detailed explanation of the reasons that the 
                agency withdrew the action; and
                    (B) an explanation regarding whether the decision 
                by the agency to withdraw the action was based, in 
                whole or in part, on a request by, or input from--
                            (i) the Office;
                            (ii) another agency;
                            (iii) a Member of Congress;
                            (iv) a State, local, or tribal government; 
                        or
                            (v) an organization, a corporation, a 
                        member of the public, or another interested 
                        party.

SEC. 305. NEGOTIATED RULEMAKING.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 5 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 561, in the first sentence, by inserting 
        ``between agencies and Federal, State, local, or tribal 
        governments. This subchapter shall apply only to information 
        negotiations between Federal, State, local, or tribal 
        governments'' after ``informal rulemaking process'';
            (2) in section 563--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by inserting 
                        ``Federal, State, local, or tribal government'' 
                        after ``identifiable''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking 
                        ``persons who'' and inserting ``representatives 
                        of Federal, State, local, and tribal 
                        governments that''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``persons 
                                        who'' and inserting ``Federal, 
                                        State, local, or tribal 
                                        governments that''; and
                                            (bb) by striking ``, 
                                        including residents of rural 
                                        areas''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``with 
                                        such persons'' and inserting 
                                        ``with representatives of those 
                                        governments''; and
                                            (bb) by striking ``to such 
                                        persons'' and inserting ``to 
                                        those governments''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), in the second 
                        sentence--
                                    (I) by striking ``persons who'' and 
                                inserting ``representatives of Federal, 
                                State, local, or tribal governments 
                                that''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``, including 
                                residents of rural areas'';
            (3) in section 564--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking ``; 
                applications for membership on committees'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (4), by striking ``the 
                        persons'' and inserting ``the representatives 
                        of Federal, State, local, and tribal 
                        governments'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (6), by adding ``and'' at 
                        the end;
                            (iii) in paragraph (7), by striking ``; 
                        and'' and inserting a period; and
                            (iv) by striking paragraph (8);
                    (C) by striking subsection (b);
                    (D) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection 
                (b); and
                    (E) in subsection (b), as so redesignated--
                            (i) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                        ``and Applications''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``and applications'';
            (4) in section 565(a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), in the first sentence, by 
                striking ``and applications''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``and applications''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``publications,'' and all 
                        that follows through the period at the end and 
                        inserting ``publications.''; and
            (5) in section 569(a), in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``and encourage agency use of''; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting ``between Federal, State, local, 
                and tribal governments'' after ``negotiated 
                rulemaking''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Balanced budget act of 1997.--Section 4554(b)(1) of the 
        Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 1395u note) is amended 
        by striking ``, using a negotiated rulemaking process under 
        subchapter III of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code''.
            (2) Elementary and secondary education act of 1965.--The 
        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 
        et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 1601 (20 U.S.C. 6571)--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by striking 
                        ``subsections (b) through (d)'' and insert 
                        ``subsection (b)'';
                            (ii) by striking subsections (b) and (c); 
                        and
                            (iii) by redesignating subsections (d) and 
                        (e) as subsections (b) and (c), respectively;
                    (B) by repealing section 1602 (20 U.S.C. 6572); and
                    (C) in section 8204(c)(1) (20 U.S.C. 7824(c)(1)), 
                by striking ``using a negotiated rulemaking process to 
                develop regulations for implementation no later than 
                the 2017-2018 academic year, shall define'' and 
                inserting ``shall, for implementation no later than the 
                2017-2018 academic year, define''.
            (3) Health insurance portability and accountability act of 
        1996.--Section 216(b) of the Health Insurance Portability and 
        Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b note) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                ``Negotiated'';
                    (B) by striking ``(1) Establishment.--'' and all 
                that follows through ``chapter 5 of title 5, United 
                States Code, standards'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services (in this subsection referred to as the `Secretary') 
        shall establish standards'';
                    (C) by striking paragraphs (2) through (9);
                    (D) by redesignating subparagraph (B) of paragraph 
                (1) as paragraph (2) and adjusting the margins 
                accordingly; and
                    (E) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``subparagraph (A)'' and inserting ``paragraph 
                (1)''.
            (4) Higher education act of 1965.--The Higher Education Act 
        of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 207 (20 U.S.C. 1022f)--
                            (i) by striking subsection (c); and
                            (ii) by redesignating subsection (d) as 
                        subsection (c);
                    (B) in section 422(g)(1) (20 U.S.C. 1072(g)(1))--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B), by adding ``and'' 
                        at the end;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; 
                        and'' and inserting a period; and
                            (iii) by striking subparagraph (D);
                    (C) in section 487A(b)(3)(B) (20 U.S.C. 
                1094a(b)(3)(B)), by striking ``in the negotiated 
                rulemaking process,'';
                    (D) in section 491(l)(4)(A) (20 U.S.C. 
                1098(l)(4)(A)), by striking ``, not later than two 
                years after the completion of the negotiated rulemaking 
                process required under section 492 resulting from the 
                amendments to this Act made by the Higher Education 
                Opportunity Act,''; and
                    (E) in section 492 (20 U.S.C. 1098a)--
                            (i) in the section heading, by striking 
                        ``negotiated''; and
                            (ii) by amending subsection (b) to read as 
                        follows:
    ``(b) Issuance of Regulations.--After obtaining the advice and 
recommendations described in subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall 
issue final regulations within the 360-day period described in section 
437(e) of the General Education Provisions Act (12 U.S.C. 1232(e)).''.
            (5) Housing act of 1949.--Section 515(r)(3) of the Housing 
        Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1485) is amended by striking ``in 
        accordance with'' and all that follows through the period at 
        the end and inserting ``under the rulemaking authority 
        contained in section 557 of title 5, United States Code.''.
            (6) Magnuson-stevens fishery conservation and management 
        act.--Section 305(g) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
        Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1855(g)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3);
                    (B) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``(A)''; and
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                        paragraph (2) and adjusting the margins 
                        accordingly; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by 
                striking the second sentence.
            (7) Mandatory price reporting act of 2010.--Section 2(b) of 
        the Mandatory Price Reporting Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-239; 
        124 Stat. 2501) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Wholesale Pork Cuts'' and all 
                that follows through ``Chapter 3'' and inserting 
                ``Wholesale Pork Cuts.--Chapter 3''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) (7 
                U.S.C. 1635k note).
            (8) Patient protection and affordable care act.--Section 
        5602 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 
        U.S.C. 254b note) is amended--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking 
                ``negotiated'';
                    (B) by striking subsections (b) through (h);
                    (C) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by redesignating paragraph (2) as 
                        subsection (b) and adjusting the margins 
                        accordingly; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``(1) in general.--
                                ''; and
                                    (II) by redesignating subparagraphs 
                                (A) and (B) as paragraphs (1) and (2), 
                                respectively; and
                    (D) in subsection (b), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``paragraph (1)'' and inserting ``subsection 
                (a)''.
            (9) Price-anderson amendments act of 1988.--The Price-
        Anderson Amendments Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-408; 102 Stat. 
        1066) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (b); and
                    (B) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``(1) Purpose.--''; and
                            (ii) by redesignating paragraph (2) as 
                        subsection (b) and adjusting the margins 
                        accordingly.
            (10) Social security act.--Title XVIII of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 1834(l)(1) (42 U.S.C. 1395m(l)(1)), 
                by striking ``through a negotiated rulemaking process 
                described in title 5, United States Code, and''; and
                    (B) in section 1856(a) (42 U.S.C. 1395w-26(a))--
                            (i) by striking paragraphs (2) through (9);
                            (ii) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``(A) In general.--
                                '';
                                    (II) by striking ``and using a 
                                negotiated rulemaking process under 
                                subchapter III of chapter 5 of title 
                                5''; and
                                    (III) by redesignating subparagraph 
                                (B) as paragraph (2) and adjusting the 
                                margins accordingly; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, 
                        by striking ``subparagraph (A)'' and inserting 
                        ``paragraph (1)''.
            (11) Title 5.--The table of sections for subchapter III of 
        chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 564 and inserting the 
        following:

``564. Publication of notice.''.
            (12) Title 49.--Section 31136(g)(1) of title 49, United 
        States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``shall--'' and all that follows 
                through ``issue'' and inserting ``shall issue'';
                    (B) by striking ``; or'' and inserting a period; 
                and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (B).
            (13) Toxic substances control act.--Section 8(a) of the 
        Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2607(a)) is amended by 
        striking paragraph (6).
            (14) United states housing act of 1937.--Section 9 of the 
        United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g) is amended 
        by repealing subsection (f).

SEC. 306. STREAMLINING OIRA REVIEW.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of 
        the Office;
            (2) the terms ``agency'', ``regulatory action'', and 
        ``significant regulatory action'' have the meanings given those 
        terms in section 3 of the Executive Order;
            (3) the term ``Executive Order'' means Executive Order 
        12866 (5 U.S.C. 601 note; relating to regulatory planning and 
        review); and
            (4) the term ``Office'' means the Office of Information and 
        Regulatory Affairs.
    (b) Prohibitions.--
            (1) Non-executive branch officials.--With respect to a 
        regulatory action of an agency, the Office may not engage in 
        communications or meetings with an individual that is not 
        employed by the executive branch of the Federal Government if 
        the regulatory action is or may be subject to review by the 
        Office under section 6(b) of the Executive Order.
            (2) Informal review.--With respect to a regulatory action 
        of an agency that may be subject to review by the Office under 
        section 6(b) of the Executive Order, the Office may not engage 
        in communications or meetings with the agency before the date 
        on which the agency submits the regulatory action to the Office 
        under section 6(a)(3) of the Executive Order.
    (c) Time Period for OIRA Review.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Office shall complete a review of a significant regulatory 
        action under section 6(b) of the Executive Order not less than 
        45 days after the date on which the Office receives the 
        significant regulatory action under section 6(a)(3) of the 
        Executive Order.
            (2) Extension.--The Office may extend the 45-day period 
        described in paragraph (1) by a single 30-day period if the 
        Office provides the agency with, and makes publicly available, 
        a written justification for the extension.
            (3) Publication of regulatory action.--If the Office waives 
        review of a significant regulatory action of an agency under 
        section 6(b)(2) of the Executive Order without a request for 
        further consideration or does not notify the agency in writing 
        of the results of the review under section 6(b) of the 
        Executive Order within the time frame described in paragraph 
        (1) or (2), the agency may publish the significant regulatory 
        action in the Federal Register.

SEC. 307. LIMITING TEMPORARY COURT INJUNCTIONS AND POSTPONING OF FINAL 
              RULES PENDING JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    Section 705 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking the first sentence; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following: ``Notwithstanding 
        the preceding sentence, with respect to agency action relating 
        to notice and comment rulemaking under section 553 of this 
        title, on such conditions as may be required and to the extent 
        necessary to prevent irreparable injury, only the reviewing 
        court to which a case may be taken on appeal from or on 
        application for certiorari or other writ to a reviewing court 
        may issue all necessary and appropriate process to postpone the 
        effective date of the agency action or to preserve status or 
        rights pending conclusion of the review proceedings.''.

SEC. 308. PENALIZING INDIVIDUALS THAT SUBMIT FALSE INFORMATION TO 
              AGENCIES.

    Section 553 of title 5, United States Code, as amended by section 
302 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Any person that uses any false writing or document knowing 
the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent 
statement or entry with respect to a rulemaking under this section 
shall be fined not more than $250,000, imprisoned not more than 5 
years, or both.''.

SEC. 309. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC ADVOCATE.

    Section 401 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d)(1)(A) There is established in the Office of Public Integrity 
an office to be known as the `Office of the Public Advocate'.
    ``(B) The Office of the Public Advocate shall be under the 
supervision of an official to be known as the `National Public 
Advocate', who shall--
            ``(i) be appointed by the President, by and with the advice 
        and consent of the Senate;
            ``(ii) report to the Director of the Office of Public 
        Integrity;
            ``(iii) not be an employee of the Federal Government;
            ``(iv) be entitled to compensation at the same rate as the 
        highest rate of basic pay established for the Senior Executive 
        Service under section 5382 of title 5, United States Code;
            ``(v) have a background in customer service, consumer 
        protection, and administrative law;
            ``(vi) have experience representing the public in cases 
        involving rules (as defined in section 551 of title 5, United 
        States Code);
            ``(vii) not have worked as an officer or employee in any 
        Federal agency during the 2-year period preceding appointment 
        under this subparagraph; and
            ``(viii) agree not to accept an offer of employment with a 
        Federal agency for not less than 5 years after ceasing to serve 
        as the National Public Advocate.
    ``(2) The duties of the Office of the Public Advocate shall 
include--
            ``(A) assisting individuals in resolving conflicts with 
        agencies;
            ``(B) assisting agencies in soliciting public participation 
        in the rulemaking process;
            ``(C) assisting individuals in participating in the 
        rulemaking process; and
            ``(D) identifying areas in which the public has problems in 
        dealing with agencies and proposing changes to mitigate those 
        problems.
    ``(3) Not later than 180 days after the date on which the National 
Public Advocate is appointed under this subsection or 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this subsection, whichever is later, the 
National Public Advocate shall propose regulations to carry out this 
subsection.''.

SEC. 310. ACTIONS BY PRIVATE PERSONS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``agency'' and 
``rule'' have the meanings given those terms in section 551 of title 5, 
United States Code.
    (b) Actions.--
            (1) In general.--A person may bring a civil action for the 
        person and for the United States Government, in the name of the 
        Government, against any person, including the United States 
        Government and any other governmental instrumentality or agency 
        to the extent permitted by the Eleventh Amendment to the 
        Constitution of the United States, for--
                    (A) a violation of a final rule issued by an 
                agency; or
                    (B) the failure of the head of an agency to comply 
                with any requirement under this Act.
            (2) Notice.--A copy of the complaint and written disclosure 
        of substantially all material evidence and information the 
        person possesses shall be served on the Government pursuant to 
        rule 4(d)(4) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The 
        Government may elect to intervene and proceed with the action 
        within 60 days after it receives both the complaint and the 
        material evidence and information.
            (3) Party conducting the action.--Before the expiration of 
        the 60-day period under paragraph (2), the Government shall--
                    (A) proceed with the action, in which case the 
                action shall be conducted by the Government; or
                    (B) notify the court that it declines to proceed 
                with the action, in which case the person bringing the 
                action shall have the right to conduct the action.
            (4) Award to plaintiff.--
                    (A) Government proceeds with action.--If the 
                Government proceeds with an action brought by a person 
                under this subsection, the person shall receive at 
                least 15 percent but not more than 25 percent of the 
                proceeds of the action or settlement of the claim, 
                depending upon the extent to which the person 
                substantially contributed to the prosecution of the 
                action. Any payment to a person under this subparagraph 
                shall be made from the proceeds. The person shall also 
                receive an amount for reasonable expenses that the 
                court finds to have been necessarily incurred, plus 
                reasonable attorney's fees and costs. The expenses, 
                fees, and costs shall be awarded against the defendant.
                    (B) Government does not proceed with action.--If 
                the Government does not proceed with an action under 
                this subsection, the person bringing the action or 
                settling the claim shall receive an amount which the 
                court decides is reasonable for collecting the civil 
                penalty and damages. The amount shall be not less than 
                25 percent and not more than 30 percent of the proceeds 
                of the action or settlement and shall be paid out of 
                the proceeds. The person shall also receive an amount 
                for reasonable expenses that the court finds to have 
                been necessarily incurred, plus reasonable attorney's 
                fees and costs. The expenses, fees, and costs shall be 
                awarded against the defendant.

SEC. 311. SCOPE OF REVIEW.

    Section 706 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence of the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``To the extent necessary'' and inserting 
        ``(a) In General.--To the extent necessary'';
            (2) in subsection (a), as so designated, by inserting after 
        the first sentence the following: ``If a statute that an agency 
        administers is silent or ambiguous, and an agency has followed 
        the procedures in section 553 or 554 of this title, as 
        applicable, a reviewing court shall defer to the agency's 
        reasonable or permissible interpretation of that statute.'';
            (3) by striking ``In making the foregoing determinations'' 
        and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Review of Record.--In making the determinations under 
subsection (a)'';
            (4) in subsection (b), as so designated, by inserting 
        ``except any part of the record that the agency excluded from 
        consideration pursuant to section 553(h)(1) of this title,'' 
        after ``party,''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Unreasonable Delay.--For purposes of subsection (a)(1), 
unreasonable delay shall include--
            ``(1) when an agency has not issued a notice of proposed 
        rulemaking within 1 year of the date of enactment of the 
        legislation mandating the rulemaking, where no deadline for the 
        rulemaking was specified in the enacted law;
            ``(2) when an agency has not issued a final version of a 
        proposed rule within 1 year of date on which the proposed rule 
        was published in the Federal Register; and
            ``(3) when an agency has not implemented a final rule 
        within 1 year of the implementation date published in the 
        Federal Register or, if no implementation date was provided, 
        within 1 year of the date on which the final rule was published 
        in the Federal Register.''.

SEC. 312. EXPANDING RULEMAKING NOTIFICATIONS.

    Section 553 of title 5, United States Code, as amended by section 
308 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k)(1) Not later than 2 business days after the date on which an 
agency publishes a notice of proposed rulemaking or a final rule under 
this section, the agency shall notify interested parties of the 
publication.
    ``(2) The Director of the Government Publishing Office shall 
establish a process under which an agency shall notify interested 
parties under paragraph (1) through e-mail or postal mail.''.

SEC. 313. PUBLIC PETITIONS.

    Section 553(e) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Each agency''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) If, during a 60-day period, an agency receives more than 
100,000 signatures on a single petition under paragraph (1), the agency 
shall, not later than 30 days after the date on which the agency 
receives the petition, provide a written response that includes--
            ``(A) an explanation of whether the agency has engaged or 
        is engaging in the requested issuance, amendment, or repeal of 
        a rule; and
            ``(B) if the agency has not engaged in the requested 
        issuance, amendment, or repeal of a rule, a written explanation 
        for not engaging in the requested issuance, amendment, or 
        repeal.''.

SEC. 314. AMENDMENT TO CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW ACT.

    Section 801(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``(1)''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (2).

SEC. 315. COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``agency'' and 
``regulation'' have the meanings given those terms in section 3 of 
Executive Order 12866 (5 U.S.C. 601 note; relating to regulatory 
planning and review).
    (b) Requirement.--If an agency is performing a cost-benefit 
analysis in the course of issuing a regulation, the agency shall--
            (1) take into account the benefits of the regulation to the 
        public, including the nonquantifiable benefits of the 
        regulation; and
            (2) adopt a regulation that prioritizes benefits to the 
        public, including nonquantifiable benefits.

SEC. 316. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990 (as 
        enacted by section 529 of Public Law 101-509), which was 
        designed to ensure that the disparity in pay between Federal 
        employees on the General Schedule and non-Federal employees is 
        not greater than 5 percent, has not been implemented as 
        envisioned, resulting in significant pay disparities between 
        Federal Government and non-Federal employees, including 
        private-sector employees;
            (2) Federal employees have experienced pay challenges in 
        recent years owing to pay freezes, reduced pay increases, and 
        unpaid furlough days, which have adversely impacted the ability 
        of the Federal Government to recruit and retain skilled 
        employees; and
            (3) the President and Congress should allow the statutory 
        pay laws to be implemented as intended, providing an annual 
        across-the-board pay adjustment and a locality pay adjustment 
        that varies by specific pay locality area.

                       TITLE IV--JUDICIAL ETHICS

SEC. 401. CLARIFICATION OF GIFT BAN.

    (a) In General.--Section 7353 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``anything of value'' and inserting ``a 
        gift''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) the term `gift' means anything of value, including 
        transportation, travel, lodgings and meals, whether provided 
        in-kind, by purchase of a ticket, payment in advance, or 
        reimbursement after the expense has been incurred.''.
    (b) Regulations.--The Judicial Conference of the United States 
shall promulgate regulations to carry out the amendment made by 
subsection (a) with respect to the judicial branch.

SEC. 402. RESTRICT PRIVATELY FUNDED EDUCATIONAL EVENTS AND SPEECHES.

    (a) Judicial Education Fund.--
            (1) Establishment.--Chapter 42 of title 28, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 630. Judicial Education Fund
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
            ``(1) the term `Fund' means the Judicial Education Fund 
        established under subsection (b);
            ``(2) the term `institution of higher education' has the 
        meaning given that term under section 101(a) of the Higher 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a));
            ``(3) the term `national bar association' means a national 
        organization that is open to general membership to all members 
        of the bar;
            ``(4) the term `private judicial seminar'--
                    ``(A) means a seminar, symposia, panel discussion, 
                course, or a similar event that provides continuing 
                legal education to judges; and
                    ``(B) does not include--
                            ``(i) seminars that last 1 day or less and 
                        are conducted by, and on the campus of, an 
                        institute of higher education;
                            ``(ii) seminars that last 1 day or less and 
                        are conducted by a national bar association or 
                        State or local bar association for the benefit 
                        of the bar association membership; or
                            ``(iii) seminars of any length conducted 
                        by, and on the campus of an institute of higher 
                        education or by a national bar association or 
                        State or local bar association, where a judge 
                        is a presenter and at which judges constitute 
                        less than 25 percent of the participants; and
            ``(5) the term `State or local bar association' means a 
        State or local organization that is open to general membership 
        to all members of the bar in the specified geographic region.
    ``(b) Fund.--There is established within the United States Treasury 
a fund to be known as the `Judicial Education Fund'.
    ``(c) Use of Amounts.--Amounts in the Fund may be made available 
for the payment of necessary expenses, including reasonable 
expenditures for transportation, food, lodging, private judicial 
seminar fees and materials, incurred by a judge or justice in attending 
a private judicial seminar approved by the Board of the Federal 
Judicial Center. Necessary expenses shall not include expenditures for 
recreational activities or entertainment other than that provided to 
all attendees as an integral part of the private judicial seminar. Any 
payment from the Fund shall be approved by the Board.
    ``(d) Required Information.--The Board may approve a private 
judicial seminar after submission of information by the sponsor of that 
private judicial seminar that includes--
            ``(1) the content of the private judicial seminar 
        (including a list of presenters, topics, and course materials); 
        and
            ``(2) the litigation activities of the sponsor and the 
        presenters at the private judicial seminar (including the 
        litigation activities of the employer of each presenter) on the 
        topic related to those addressed at the private judicial 
        seminar.
    ``(e) Public Availability.--If the Board approves a private 
judicial seminar, the Board shall make the information submitted under 
subsection (d) relating to the private judicial seminar available to 
judges and the public by posting the information online.
    ``(f) Guidelines.--The Judicial Conference shall promulgate 
guidelines to ensure that the Board only approves private judicial 
seminars that are conducted in a manner so as to maintain the public's 
confidence in an unbiased and fair-minded judiciary.
    ``(g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for deposit in the Fund $3,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2019, 2020, and 2021, to remain available until expended.''.
            (2) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table of 
        sections for chapter 42 of title 28, United States Code, is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:

``630. Judicial Education Fund.''.
    (b) Private Judicial Seminar Gifts Prohibited.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection--
                    (A) the term ``gift'' has the meaning given that 
                term under section 7353 of title 5, United States Code, 
                as amended by section 401;
                    (B) the term ``institution of higher education'' 
                has the meaning given that term under section 101(a) of 
                the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)); 
                and
                    (C) the terms ``national bar association'', 
                ``private judicial seminar'', and ``State or local bar 
                association'' have the meanings given those terms under 
                section 630 of title 28, United States Code, as added 
                by subsection (a).
            (2) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Judicial Conference of the United 
        States shall promulgate regulations to apply section 7353(a) of 
        title 5, United States Code, to prohibit the solicitation or 
        acceptance of a gift in connection with a private judicial 
        seminar.
            (3) Exception.--The prohibition under the regulations 
        promulgated under paragraph (2) shall not apply if--
                    (A) the judge participates in a private judicial 
                seminar as a speaker, panel participant, or otherwise 
                presents information;
                    (B) Federal judges are not the primary audience at 
                the private judicial seminar; and
                    (C) the gift accepted is--
                            (i) reimbursement from the private judicial 
                        seminar sponsor of reasonable transportation, 
                        food, or lodging expenses on any day on which 
                        the judge speaks, participates, or presents 
                        information, as applicable;
                            (ii) attendance at the private judicial 
                        seminar on any day on which the judge speaks, 
                        participates, or presents information, as 
                        applicable; or
                            (iii) anything excluded from the definition 
                        of a gift under regulations of the Judicial 
                        Conference of the United States under sections 
                        7351 and 7353 of title 5, United States Code, 
                        as in effect on the date of enactment of this 
                        Act.

SEC. 403. CODE OF CONDUCT.

    (a) Applicability.--The Code of Conduct for United States Judges 
adopted by the Judicial Conference of the United States shall apply to 
the justices of the Supreme Court of the United States to the same 
extent as such Code applies to circuit and district judges.
    (b) Enforcement.--The Judicial Conference shall establish 
procedures, modeled after the procedures set forth in chapter 16 of 
title 28, United States Code, under which--
            (1) complaints alleging that a justice of the Supreme Court 
        of the United States has violated the Code of Conduct referred 
        to in subsection (a) may be filed with or identified by the 
        Conference;
            (2) such complaints are reviewed and investigated by the 
        Conference; and
            (3) further action, where appropriate, is taken by the 
        Conference, with respect to such complaints.
    (c) Submission to Congress; Effective Date.--
            (1) Submission to congress.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Judicial Conference 
        shall submit to Congress the procedures established under 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Effective date.--The procedures established under 
        subsection (b) shall take effect 270 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act.

SEC. 404. IMPROVING DISCLOSURE.

    (a) Financial Reports.--Section 103(h) of the Ethics in Government 
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(3) The Judicial Conference shall make publicly available online, 
at no cost, each report required under this title that is filed with 
the Judicial Conference in a searchable, sortable, machine readable, 
and downloadable format.''.
    (b) Recusal Decisions.--Section 455 of title 28, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Each justice, judge, and magistrate judge of the United 
States shall maintain a list of each association or interest that would 
require the justice, judge, or magistrate to be recused under 
subsection (b)(4).''.
    (c) Speeches.--
            (1) In general.--Each justice, judge, and magistrate judge 
        of the United States shall maintain and submit to the Judicial 
        Conference of the United States a copy of each speech or other 
        significant oral communication made by the justice, judge or 
        magistrate.
            (2) Availability.--The Judicial Conference of the United 
        States shall maintain and make each speech or other significant 
        oral communication submitted under paragraph (1) available to 
        the public in printed form, upon request, and online, at no 
        cost, in a searchable, sortable, machine readable, and 
        downloadable format.
            (3) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Judicial Conference of the United 
        States shall promulgate regulations regarding the types of oral 
        communications that are required to be maintained, submitted, 
        and made publicly available under this subsection.
    (d) Livestreaming Judicial Proceedings.--
            (1) Definition.--In this section, the term ``appellate 
        court of the United States'' means any United States circuit 
        court of appeals and the Supreme Court of the United States.
            (2) Streaming of court proceedings.--In accordance with 
        procedures established by the Judicial Conference of the United 
        States, the audio of each open session conducted by an 
        appellate court of the United States shall be made available 
        online contemporaneously with the session, unless the appellate 
        court of the United States, by a majority vote, determines that 
        making audio of the session available online would violate the 
        constitutional rights of any party to the proceeding.
    (e) Publicizing Case Assignment Information.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Judicial Conference of the United 
        States shall promulgate regulations requiring each court of the 
        United States to make case assignment data available to the 
        public online, at no cost, in a searchable, sortable, machine 
        readable, and downloadable.
            (2) Contents.--The case assignment data made available 
        under paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum, and to the 
        extent available, the case title, docket number, case origin, 
        filing date, and name of each authoring judge, concurring 
        judge, and dissenting judge for each opinion issued in the 
        case.
    (f) Making Websites User-Friendly.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Judicial Conference of the 
United States shall promulgate regulations requiring an evaluation of, 
and improvements to, the website of each district court of the United 
States to ensure the website is easy to understand, including that it 
is clear how to file a complaint relating to a judge or an employee of 
the district court.

SEC. 405. APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES.

    (a) In General.--Section 3105 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after the first sentence the following: 
``Administrative law judge positions shall be positions in the 
competitive service.''.
    (b) Conversion of Positions.--With respect to any individual 
serving on the date of enactment of this Act in an excepted service 
position as an administrative law judge appointed under section 3105 of 
title 5, United States Code, as in effect on the day before the date of 
enactment of this Act, the head of the agency employing the 
administrative law judge shall convert the appointment to a permanent 
appointment in the competitive service in the agency.
    (c) Applicability.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall apply on and after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 406. IMPROVE REPORTING ON JUDICIAL DIVERSITY.

    Section 331 of title 28, United States Code, is amended in the 
eighth undesignated paragraph by adding at the end the following: ``The 
report submitted by the Chief Justice under this paragraph shall 
include a report on the diversity of the Federal judiciary, including 
diversity of justices and judges of the United States based on gender, 
race, ethnicity, disability status, sexual orientation, gender 
identity, national origin, and professional experience before being 
appointed a justice or judge of the United States.''.

SEC. 407. PLEADING STANDARDS.

    (a) In General.--Rule 12 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Pleading Standards. A court shall not dismiss a complaint 
under Rule 12(b)(6), (c) or (e):
            ``(1) unless it appears beyond doubt that the plaintiff can 
        prove no set of facts in support of the claim which would 
        entitle the plaintiff to relief; or
            ``(2) on the basis of a determination by the court that the 
        factual contents of the complaint do not show the plaintiff's 
        claim to be plausible or are insufficient to warrant a 
        reasonable inference that the defendant is liable for the 
        misconduct alleged.''.
    (b) Applicability.--Rule 12(j) of the Federal Rules of Civil 
Procedure, as added by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to the 
dismissal of complaints except as otherwise expressly provided by an 
Act of Congress enacted after the date of the enactment of this Act or 
by amendments made after such date of enactment to the Federal Rules of 
Civil Procedure pursuant to the procedures prescribed by the Judicial 
Conference of the United States under chapter 131 of title 28, United 
States Code.

SEC. 408. AVAILABILITY OF JUDICIAL OPINIONS.

    Section 205 of the E-Government Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. 3501 note) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(5), by striking ``text searchable 
        format'' and inserting ``text searchable and machine-readable 
        file format that may be cited using a vendor-neutral and 
        medium-neutral citation system''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Bulk access.--
                    ``(A) Provision to gpo.--Each written opinion 
                required to be made accessible on a website under 
                subsection (a)(5) shall be provided to the Government 
                Publishing Office.
                    ``(B) Access.--The Director of the Government 
                Publishing Office shall make available to the public 
                for bulk download all written opinions provide to the 
                Government Publishing Office under subparagraph (A).''.

                          TITLE V--ENFORCEMENT

                 Subtitle A--Office of Public Integrity

SEC. 511. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF PUBLIC INTEGRITY.

    (a) In General.--The Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.) is amended--
            (1) in title I, by striking ``Government Ethics'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``Public Integrity'';
            (2) in the heading for title IV, by striking ``GOVERNMENT 
        ETHICS'' and inserting ``PUBLIC INTEGRITY'';
            (3) in section 401--
                    (A) by striking ``Government Ethics'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``Public Integrity'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``There is 
                        established''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) The purposes of the Office of Public Integrity are--
            ``(A) to consolidate and strengthen Federal ethics 
        enforcement and anti-corruption public integrity efforts;
            ``(B) to conduct anti-corruption, ethics, and public 
        integrity oversight of officers and employees of the Federal 
        Government through investigations, corrective action, and other 
        actions and penalties;
            ``(C) to promote public integrity and prevent corruption 
        within the Federal Government through education, advisory, 
        guidance, and rulemaking;
            ``(D) to facilitate accountability through affirmative 
        public disclosures, lobbying registration, and the promotion of 
        transparency across the Federal Government; and
            ``(E) to protect the public's interest in democracy and 
        Federal policymaking.''; and
                    (C) by adding after subsection (d), as added by 
                section 309 of this Act, the following:
    ``(e)(1) There is established within the Office of Public Integrity 
a division to be known as the `Government Ethics Division'.
    ``(2) The Government Ethics Division shall carry out all functions 
of the Office of Government Ethics under this Act as of the day before 
the date of enactment of this subsection, including--
            ``(A) providing advice to designated agency ethics 
        officials, including legal advisories, education advisories, 
        and program management advisories on substantive ethics issues;
            ``(B) providing training and education opportunities to 
        designated agency ethics officials on an ongoing basis; and
            ``(C) providing confidential advice, which, subject to 
        paragraph (3), shall not lead to enforcement action, for any 
        agency employee seeking confidential ethics advice.
    ``(3)(A) The Government Ethics Division may refer a matter for 
enforcement based on information obtained in providing advice to an 
employee under paragraph (2)(C) if the employee--
            ``(i) knowingly makes a material misrepresentation, 
        including making a significant omission in providing 
        information, to the Government Ethics Division;
            ``(ii) has already taken the action in violation of the 
        laws or regulations relating to conflicts of interest or other 
        ethics issues;
            ``(iii) reveals significant criminal activity, particularly 
        criminal activity outside the jurisdiction of the Office of 
        Public Integrity;
            ``(iv) engaged in a prohibited personnel practice described 
        in paragraph (8) or subparagraph (A)(i), (B), (C), or (D) of 
        paragraph (9) of section 2302(b) of title 5, United States 
        Code; or
            ``(v) engaged in other actions, as established by the 
        Director by regulation.
    ``(B) An employee who seeks advice under paragraph (2)(C) may be 
subject to administrative remedies, such as reprimand, divestiture, 
forced recusal, or other corrective actions to remedy the violation.
    ``(C) Notwithstanding any other provision in this paragraph, the 
Director may promulgate regulations (including regulations under 
subparagraph (A)(v)) to ensure that--
            ``(i) an employee who engages in conduct in good faith 
        reliance upon an advisory opinion issued to the employee by the 
        Government Ethics Division or a designated agency ethics 
        official generally shall not be subject to civil, criminal, or 
        disciplinary action by the Office of Public Integrity;
            ``(ii) an advisory opinion issued to an employee by the 
        Government Ethics Division or a designated agency ethics 
        official shall not prevent the employee from being subject to 
        other civil or disciplinary action if the conduct of the 
        employee violates another law, rule, regulation, or lawful 
        management policy or directive; and
            ``(iii) if an employee has actual knowledge or reason to 
        believe that an advisory opinion issued to the employee by the 
        Government Ethics Division or a designated agency ethics 
        official is based on fraudulent, misleading, or otherwise 
        incorrect information, the reliance of the employee on the 
        opinion not be deemed to be in good faith.'';
            (4) in section 403, by striking ``Government Ethics'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``Public Integrity''; and
            (5) in section 503(2), by striking ``Government Ethics'' 
        and inserting ``Public Integrity''.
    (b) Officers.--
            (1) Director.--Section 401(b) of the Ethics in Government 
        Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``There shall be'';
                    (B) by inserting ``without regard to political 
                affiliation and solely on the basis of integrity and 
                demonstrated ability to fulfill the responsibilities of 
                the role of Director'' after ``who shall be 
                appointed'';
                    (C) by striking ``Effective with respect'' and 
                inserting the following:
    ``(3) Effective with respect'';
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (1), as so 
                designated, the following:
    ``(2) Each individual appointed by the President to the position of 
Director--
            ``(A) shall not have any conflict of interest with respect 
        to any aspect of performing the duties and responsibilities of 
        the Director;
            ``(B) shall have a demonstrated record in public integrity 
        and ethics enforcement;
            ``(C) shall not have ever been registered, or required to 
        be registered, as a lobbyist under the Lobbying Disclosure Act 
        of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.);
            ``(D) during the 4-year period ending on the date on which 
        the President nominates the individual to the position of 
        Director, shall not have engaged in any significant political 
        activity (including being a candidate for public office, 
        fundraising for a candidate for public office or a political 
        party, or serving as an officer or employee of a political 
        campaign or party);
            ``(E) shall not have ever been an agent of a foreign 
        principal registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act 
        of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.); and
            ``(F) during the 4-year period ending on the date on which 
        the President nominates the individual to the position of 
        Director, shall not served as a fiduciary or personal attorney 
        for an officer or employee of the Federal Government, including 
        anyone elected to public office.''; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(4) The Director may only be removed from office by the President 
for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.
    ``(5) Not later than 30 days before the date on which the President 
removes the Director from office or transfers the Director to another 
position or location for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance 
in office, the President shall submit to the Senate and the House of 
Representatives written notice of the reasons for the removal or 
transfer.
    ``(6) During the period of any absence or unavailability of the 
Director, including a vacancy in the office of the Director, all powers 
and duties of the Director shall be vested in the Deputy Director.
    ``(7) The Director may continue to serve beyond the expiration of 
the term of the Director until a successor is appointed, by and with 
the advice and consent of the Senate.''.
            (2) Assistant directors.--Section 401(c)(1) of the Ethics 
        in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by 
        inserting ``and Assistant Directors (which may include an 
        Assistant Director for Investigations, an Assistant Director 
        for Government Transparency, and an Assistant Director for the 
        Government Ethics Division)'' after ``including attorneys''.
            (3) Deputy director.--Section 401 of the Ethics in 
        Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by adding 
        after subsection (e), as added by subsection (a) of this 
        section, the following:
    ``(f)(1) There shall be in the Office of Public Integrity a Deputy 
Director, who shall--
            ``(A) be appointed by the President in accordance with 
        paragraph (2), by and with the advice and consent of the 
        Senate; and
            ``(B) serve as acting Director in the event of the absence 
        or unavailability of the Director, including a vacancy in the 
        office of the Director.
    ``(2) Each individual appointed by the President to the position of 
Deputy Director--
            ``(A) shall not have any conflict of interest with respect 
        to any aspect of performing the duties and responsibilities of 
        the Deputy Director;
            ``(B) shall have a demonstrated record in public integrity 
        and ethics enforcement;
            ``(C) shall not have ever been registered, or required to 
        be registered, as a lobbyist under the Lobbying Disclosure Act 
        of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.);
            ``(D) during the 4-year period ending on the date on which 
        the President nominates the individual to the position of 
        Deputy Director, shall not have engaged in any significant 
        political activity (including being a candidate for public 
        office, fundraising for a candidate for public office or a 
        political party, or serving as an officer or employee of a 
        political campaign or party);
            ``(E) shall not have ever been an agent of a foreign 
        principal registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act 
        of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.); and
            ``(F) during the 4-year period ending on the date on which 
        the President nominates the individual to the position of 
        Deputy Director, shall not served as a fiduciary or personal 
        attorney for an officer or employee of the Federal Government, 
        including anyone elected to public office.''.
    (c) Authority and Functions.--Section 402 of the Ethics in 
Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``shall provide'' and inserting the 
                following: ``shall--
    ``(1) provide'';
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) investigate potential violations by officers and employees in 
all branches of the Federal Government or by any other person of the 
laws or regulations relating to conflicts of interest or other ethics 
issues, to the extent allowable by law and the Constitution.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``the President or'';
                            (ii) by striking ``ethics'' and inserting 
                        ``other ethics issues''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``title II of this Act'' 
                        and inserting ``title I'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``the President or''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``and other ethics 
                        issues'' before the semicolon;
                    (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``title II of 
                this Act'' and inserting ``title I'';
                    (D) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) by striking ``conflict of interest laws 
                        or regulations'' and inserting ``laws or 
                        regulations relating to conflicts of interest 
                        or other ethics issues''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``ethical problems'' and 
                        inserting ``other ethics issue'';
                    (E) in paragraph (6)--
                            (i) by striking ``the President or''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``ethical problems'' and 
                        inserting ``other ethics issues'';
                    (F) in paragraph (7), by striking ``conflict of 
                interest problems'' and inserting ``conflicts of 
                interest or other ethics issues'';
                    (G) by striking paragraph (9) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(9)(A) investigating potential violations by officers and 
        employees in the Federal Government (including officers and 
        employees in positions in the Executive Office of the President 
        (including the White House Office)) of the laws or regulations 
        relating to conflicts of interest or other ethics issues;
            ``(B) ordering (or with respect to the President, 
        recommending) corrective action on the part of agencies, 
        officers, and employees, as determined appropriate by the 
        Director;
            ``(C) as the Director determines appropriate, referring an 
        alleged violation of the laws or regulations relating to 
        conflicts of interest or other ethics issues to the Attorney 
        General or the head of the appropriate agency for civil or 
        criminal enforcement; and
            ``(D) order appropriate disciplinary action with respect to 
        an officer or employee in the executive branch, in accordance 
        with subsection (f)(2);'';
                    (H) by striking paragraph (11) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(11)(A) evaluating the effectiveness of the laws and 
        regulations relating to conflicts of interest and other ethics 
        issues and recommending to Congress appropriate amendments to 
        prevent corruption and to improve Government ethics, 
        accountability, public integrity, and transparency; and
            ``(B) preparing an annual report to Congress, which shall 
        include--
                    ``(i) any recommended amendments described in 
                subparagraph (A);
                    ``(ii) a description of any significant actions 
                taken by the Director in carrying out the duties of the 
                Director, including specific steps taken to ensure that 
                Federal officers and employees are complying with the 
                laws and regulations relating to conflicts of interest 
                or other ethics issues;
                    ``(iii) information concerning significant 
                violations of the laws or regulations relating to 
                conflicts of interest or other ethics issues; and
                    ``(iv) corrective action concerning violations 
                described in clause (iii) and progress made in 
                implementing such corrective action;'';
                    (I) in paragraph (12), by striking ``conflict of 
                interest and ethical problems'' and inserting 
                ``conflicts of interest and other ethics issues'';
                    (J) by striking paragraph (13) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(13) referring any potential violation of the laws and 
        regulations relating to conflicts of interest and other ethics 
        issues determined appropriate by the Director for criminal 
        enforcement to the Attorney General, accompanied by any 
        evidence in the possession of the Director and recommendations, 
        if any, of the Director regarding the appropriate charges or 
        penalties;'';
                    (K) in paragraph (14), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (L) in paragraph (15), by striking ``title II of 
                this Act.'' and inserting ``title I;''; and
                    (M) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(16)(A) assuming responsibilities for disclosures of 
        Executive Branch financial holdings, lobbying, and influencing 
        activities;
            ``(B) conducting periodic and routine audits of disclosures 
        described in subparagraph (A) to ensure the accuracy of the 
        documents; and
            ``(C) conducting targeted audits of disclosures described 
        in subparagraph (A) when the Director has reason to believe 
        such disclosures contain inaccuracies or misinformation;
            ``(17) receiving, and within a reasonable timeframe 
        responding to, complaints from members of the public of alleged 
        violations of the laws or regulations relating to conflicts of 
        interest or other ethics issues;
            ``(18) reporting publicly anonymized information regarding 
        the resolution of complaints received under paragraph (17);
            ``(19) making available online on a central website that 
        allows records to be available in a searchable, sortable, and 
        downloadable format all ethics records that are required to be 
        made publicly available under any provision of law, or that the 
        Director determines may and should be made publicly available, 
        including ethics records described subsection (j)(1);
            ``(20) after providing notice and an opportunity for a 
        hearing, imposing appropriate civil monetary penalties against 
        individuals and entities who violate the laws or regulations 
        relating to conflicts of interest or other ethics issues;
            ``(21) making appropriate enforcement referrals to the 
        Securities and Exchange Commission, the Office of the Special 
        Counsel, and other relevant Federal or State law enforcement 
        agencies in instances of violations of Federal or State law, 
        where appropriate;
            ``(22) except as otherwise required by law or reserved to 
        the President, making and overseeing any waiver of the laws or 
        regulations relating to conflicts of interest or other ethics 
        issues;
            ``(23) testifying before each House of Congress at least 
        annually;
            ``(24) approving any significant determination by a 
        designated agency ethics official, including any ethics 
        agreement, financial disclosure, recusal agreement, or 
        divestment determination, for any individual serving in a 
        position--
                    ``(A) on any level of the Executive Schedule under 
                subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5, United States 
                Code;
                    ``(B) in the executive branch pursuant to an 
                appointment by the President, by and with the advice 
                and consent of the Senate; or
                    ``(C) in the Executive Office of the President;
            ``(25) overseeing the day to day activities of each 
        Inspector General in the executive branch, except to the extent 
        provided otherwise by law; and
            ``(26) administering the provisions of this title as they 
        pertain to the heads of agencies.'';
            (3) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) each executive agency shall furnish to the Director 
        all information and records in the possession of the executive 
        agency that the Director determines to be necessary for the 
        performance of the duties of the Director.'';
            (4) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(A)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by inserting ``(or, with 
                        respect to the President, recommend)'' after 
                        ``order'' the first place it appears; and
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by inserting ``(or, 
                        with respect to the President, recommend)'' 
                        after ``order'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) in clause (ii)(II), by 
                                inserting ``and Congress'' after the 
                                ``the President''; and
                                    (II) in clause (iv)--
                                            (aa) in subclause (I), by 
                                        striking ``may recommend'' and 
                                        all that follows through 
                                        ``brought against the officer 
                                        or employee'' and inserting 
                                        ``may recommend that the agency 
                                        head take a specific 
                                        disciplinary action (including 
                                        reprimand, suspension, 
                                        demotion, or dismissal) or that 
                                        the agency head take such 
                                        disciplinary action as the 
                                        agency head determines 
                                        appropriate with respect to the 
                                        officer or employee''; and
                                            (bb) by striking subclause 
                                        (II) and inserting the 
                                        following:
                                    ``(II) if the Director recommends a 
                                specific disciplinary action under 
                                subclause (I) and the head of the 
                                agency (not including the President) 
                                has not taken appropriate disciplinary 
                                action within 90 days after the 
                                Director recommends such action, may, 
                                after notifying the President and 
                                Congress in writing, order appropriate 
                                disciplinary action with respect to the 
                                officer or employee, in accordance with 
                                subparagraph (B), including reprimand, 
                                suspension, demotion, or dismissal of 
                                the officer or employee.'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) by striking clause (iii) and 
                                inserting the following:
    ``(iii) Subject to clause (iv) of this subparagraph, before the 
Director orders any action under subparagraph (A)(iii) or orders any 
disciplinary action under subparagraph (A)(iv), the Director shall 
afford the officer or employee involved an opportunity for a hearing, 
if requested by such officer or employee, which shall be conducted on 
the record.'';
                                    (II) by redesignating clause (iv) 
                                as clause (vi);
                                    (III) by inserting after clause 
                                (iii) the following:
    ``(iv) The Director shall make publicly available any 
recommendation of a specific disciplinary action made by the Director 
under subparagraph (A)(iv)(I).
    ``(v) The authority of the Director under subparagraph (A)(iv)(II) 
to order disciplinary action may not be delegated.''; and
                                    (IV) in clause (vi), as so 
                                redesignated--
                                            (aa) by striking ``title 
                                        2'' and inserting ``title I''; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) by striking ``section 
                                        206'' and inserting ``section 
                                        104''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(C)(i)(I) A political appointee (as defined in section 714(h) of 
title 38, United States Code) with respect to whom the Director orders 
a disciplinary action under subparagraph (A)(iv) may appeal the order 
to the President.
    ``(II) A determination by the President in an appeal under 
subclause (I) shall be--
            ``(aa) made in writing;
            ``(bb) submitted to Congress; and
            ``(cc) made publicly available by the President.
    ``(III) A determination by the President in an appeal under 
subclause (I) shall not be subject to judicial review.
    ``(ii) An officer or employee who is not a political appointee with 
respect to whom the Director orders a disciplinary action under 
subparagraph (A)(iv) may--
            ``(I) appeal a final order or decision of the Director to 
        the Merit Systems Protection Board under section 7701 of title 
        5, United States Code; and
            ``(II) seek judicial review of a final order or decision of 
        the Merit Systems Protection Board in the Court of Appeals for 
        the Federal Circuit in accordance with section 7703 of title 5, 
        United States Code.'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``paragraph (2)(A)(iii)'' 
                and inserting ``clause (iii) or (iv) of paragraph 
                (2)(A)'';
                    (D) by striking paragraph (5); and
                    (E) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph 
                (5); and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) As part of an investigation of potential violations of the 
laws or regulations relating to conflicts of interest or other ethics 
issues, the Director may require by subpoena the attendance of and 
testimony by witnesses and the production any book, check, canceled 
check, correspondence, communication, document, email, papers, physical 
evidence, record, recording, tape, or other material (including 
electronic records) relating to any matter or question the Director is 
authorized to investigate from any individual or entity.
    ``(h)(1) If the Attorney General declines to prosecute a criminal 
matter referred by the Director, the Attorney General shall submit to 
the Director and make publicly available written notice regarding the 
declination.
    ``(2) The Attorney General may redact information from the publicly 
available written notice under paragraph (1) if the Attorney General 
determines that disclosure of the information would constitute a 
clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
    ``(i)(1) In addition to the authority otherwise provided by this 
Act, the Director, any Assistant Director for Investigations under the 
Director who is appointed by the Director, and any special agent 
supervised by the Director or Assistant Director may be authorized by 
the Attorney General to seek warrants for search of a premises or 
seizure of evidence issued under the authority of the United States 
upon probable cause to believe that a violation has been committed.
    ``(2) The Attorney General shall promulgate, and revise as 
appropriate, guidelines which shall govern the exercise of the law 
enforcement powers established under paragraph (1).
    ``(3)(A) The power authorized for the Office of Public Integrity 
under paragraph (1) may be rescinded or suspended upon--
            ``(i) a determination by the Attorney General that the 
        exercise of authorized power by the Office of Public Integrity 
        has not complied with the guidelines promulgated by the 
        Attorney General under paragraph (2); or
            ``(ii) a determination by the Attorney General that 
        available assistance from other law enforcement agencies is 
        sufficient to meet the need for such powers.
    ``(B) The powers authorized to be exercised by any individual under 
paragraph (1) may be rescinded or suspended with respect to that 
individual upon a determination by the Attorney General that such 
individual has not complied with guidelines promulgated by the Attorney 
General under paragraph (2).
    ``(4) No provision of this subsection shall limit the exercise of 
law enforcement powers established under any other statutory authority, 
including United States Marshals Service special deputation.
    ``(j)(1) In carrying out subsection (b)(19), except for classified 
records and any specific record described in this paragraph the 
Director determines should not be made publicly available, the website 
described in subsection (b)(19) shall include--
            ``(A) public financial disclosure reports of nominees and 
        appointees to positions on any level of the Executive Schedule 
        under subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5, United States 
        Code;
            ``(B) other public financial disclosure reports reviewed by 
        the Office of Public Integrity;
            ``(C) ethics agreements of individuals nominated or 
        appointed to a position by the President;
            ``(D) certifications of compliance with ethics agreements 
        by individuals appointed to a position by the President;
            ``(E) ethics agreements of individuals appointed pursuant 
        to subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 105(a)(2) or 
        subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 106(a)(1) of title 3, 
        United States Code;
            ``(F) certifications of compliance with ethics agreements 
        by individuals appointed pursuant to subparagraph (A), (B), or 
        (C) of section 105(a)(2) or subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of 
        section 106(a)(1) of title 3, United States Code;
            ``(G) all ethics waivers, including waivers for senior 
        government officials as defined in section 101 of the Anti-
        Corruption and Public Integrity Act, issued pursuant to--
                    ``(i) section 207 or 208 of title 18, United States 
                Code;
                    ``(ii) section 2635.502(d) of title 5, Code of 
                Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto;
                    ``(iii) section 2635.503(c) of title 5, Code of 
                Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto;
                    ``(iv) any Executive Order; and
                    ``(v) any other authority to waive other ethics 
                requirements or extend any ethics-related deadlines;
            ``(H) certificates of divestiture;
            ``(I) records of approval by agencies of the acceptance of 
        gifts by individuals appointed to a position by the President 
        from outside sources for which employees must obtain agency 
        approval;
            ``(J) records relating to the initial ethics briefings of 
        individuals appointed to a position by the President required 
        by section 2638.305 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or 
        any successor thereto;
            ``(K) records of ethics training completed by individuals 
        appointed to a position by the President;
            ``(L) reports of the review by the Office of Public 
        Integrity of agency ethics programs;
            ``(M) report filed by executive agencies with the General 
        Services Administration regarding the use of Government 
        aircraft by senior officials, which shall be posted at least 
        every 90 days and shall contain a complete explanation of the 
        decision to use a Government aircraft, the cost of the use of a 
        Government aircraft, and the selection of the type of aircraft 
        used;
            ``(N) any reports submitted to Congress by the Office of 
        Public Integrity; and
            ``(O) any other ethics records that the Director makes 
        available to the public.
    ``(2) The Director shall ensure that--
            ``(A) all ethics agreements approved by the Director 
        specify conflicts of interest for each individual, including 
        all matters from which the individual shall be recused; and
            ``(B) the information relating to ethics agreements made 
        available under subsection (b)(19) is updated to reflect any 
        additional matters from which the individual shall be 
        recused.''.
    (d) Reports to Congress.--Section 408 of the Ethics in Government 
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a)'' before ``The Director shall,''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or any rule, 
regulation, or policy directive, upon request by a committee or 
subcommittee of Congress, the Director, or any employee of the Office 
of Public Integrity designated by the Director, may transmit to the 
committee or subcommittee, by report, testimony, or otherwise, 
information and views on functions, responsibilities, or other matters 
relating to the Office of Public Integrity, without review, clearance, 
or approval by any other administrative authority.
    ``(c)(1) For each fiscal year, the Director may transmit a budget 
estimate and request to Congress.
    ``(2) The President shall include in each budget submitted under 
section 1105 of title 31, United States Code--
            ``(A) a separate statement of the budget estimate and 
        request prepared with the Director;
            ``(B) the amount requested by the President for the Office 
        of Public Integrity; and
            ``(C) any comments of the Director with respect to the 
        proposal by the President if the Director concludes that the 
        budget submitted by the President would substantially inhibit 
        the Director from performing the duties of the office.''.
    (e) Definitions.--Title IV of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 
(5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``Sec. 409. Definitions.--For purposes of this title--
            ``(1) the term `agency' includes the Executive Office of 
        the President;
            ``(2) the term `head of an agency' includes the President 
        or a designee of the President, for purposes of applying this 
        title to the White House and the Executive Office of the 
        President; and
            ``(3) the term `laws or regulations relating to conflicts 
        of interest or other ethics issues' includes this Act, sections 
        203 through 209 of title 18, United States Code, the Stop 
        Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-
        105; 5 U.S.C. App., note to section 101 of Public Law 95-521), 
        any Executive order substantially concerning Government ethics, 
        any written ethics agreement or pledge signed by a Presidential 
        appointee, and any other relevant ethics statutes or 
        regulations.''.
    (f) Provision of Financial Disclosures to the Office of Public 
Integrity.--Section 103(j) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and the Director of 
        the Office of Public Integrity'' after ``Official Conduct of 
        the House of Representatives''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and the Director of 
        the Office of Public Integrity'' after ``Ethics of the 
        Senate''.
    (g) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
        by striking the item relating to the Director of the Office of 
        Government Ethics and inserting the following:
            ``Director of the Office of Public Integrity.''.
            (2) Section 7302(a) of title 5, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``Government Ethics'' and inserting 
        ``Public Integrity''.
            (3) Section 7353(d)(1)(D) of title 5, United States Code, 
        is amended by striking ``Government Ethics'' and inserting 
        ``Public Integrity''.
            (4) Section 11(b)(1)(E) of the Inspector General Act of 
        1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by striking ``Government 
        Ethics'' and inserting ``Public Integrity''.
            (5) Section 12(f) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1822(f)) is amended by striking ``Government Ethics'' 
        each place it appears and inserting ``Public Integrity''.
            (6) Section 152(g) of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 
        (12 U.S.C. 5342(g)) is amended by striking ``Government 
        Ethics'' and inserting ``Public Integrity''.
            (7) Section 9(o)(12) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
        638(o)(12)) is amended by striking ``Government Ethics'' and 
        inserting ``Public Integrity''.
            (8) Section 207 of title 18, United States Code, is amended 
        by striking ``Government Ethics'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``Public Integrity''.
            (9) Section 208 of title 18, United States Code, is amended 
        by striking ``Government Ethics'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``Public Integrity''.
            (10) Section 1043(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
        is amended by striking ``Government Ethics'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Public Integrity''.
            (11) Section 594(j)(5) of title 28, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``Government Ethics'' and inserting 
        ``Public Integrity''.
            (12) Section 1353 of title 31, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``Government Ethics'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``Public Integrity''.
            (13) Section 2303(c) of title 41, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``Government Ethics'' and inserting 
        ``Public Integrity''.
            (14) Section 3(d)(3) of the Department of the Interior 
        Volunteer Recruitment Act of 2005 (43 U.S.C. 1475b(d)(3)) is 
        amended by striking ``Government Ethics'' and inserting 
        ``Public Integrity''.
            (15) Section 40122(d) of title 49, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``Government Ethics'' and inserting 
        ``Public Integrity''.
            (16) Section 102A of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 3024) is amended by striking ``Government Ethics'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``Public Integrity''.
            (17) Section 12(g) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act 
        of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3512(g)) is amended in the matter preceding 
        paragraph (1) by striking ``Government Ethics'' and inserting 
        ``Public Integrity''.

SEC. 512. DESIGNATED AGENCY ETHICS OFFICIALS.

    (a) In General.--Section 109(3) of the Ethics in Government Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) `designated agency ethics official' means an officer 
        or employee of an agency--
                    ``(A) who is appointed and supervised by the head 
                of the agency, after consultation with the Director of 
                the Office of Public Integrity and the Inspector 
                General of the agency;
                    ``(B) who may only be removed by the head of the 
                agency, after consultation with the Director of the 
                Office of Public Integrity and the Inspector General of 
                the agency;
                    ``(C) has a permanent duty station in the same 
                physical building as the head of the agency employing 
                the officer or employee, unless the head of the agency 
                is the President;
                    ``(D) is designated to administer the provisions of 
                this title within the agency, except as they pertain to 
                the head of the agency;
                    ``(E) may not have other significant duties or 
                responsibilities that might distract from the duty of 
                the officer or employee to administer the provisions of 
                this title within the agency; and
                    ``(F) who shall not, at any time or in any manner, 
                be prevented, inhibited, or prohibited by the head of 
                the agency from administering the provisions of this 
                title within the agency.''.
    (b) Review by Director.--Section 111 of the Ethics in Government 
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a)'' before ``The provisions'';
            (2) by inserting ``(subject to subsection (b))'' after 
        ``designated agency ethics official''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b)(1) A designated agency ethics official shall submit to the 
Director of the Office of Public Integrity--
                    ``(A) each significant determination (including any 
                ethics agreement, financial disclosure, recusal 
                agreement, or divestment determination) by the 
                designated agency ethics official relating to the 
                application or implementation of the laws or 
                regulations relating to conflicts of interest or other 
                ethics issues (including this title) for any individual 
                serving in a position--
                            ``(i) on any level of the Executive 
                        Schedule under subchapter II of chapter 53 of 
                        title 5, United States Code;
                            ``(ii) in the executive branch pursuant to 
                        an appointment by the President, by and with 
                        the advice and consent of the Senate; or
                            ``(iii) in the Executive Office of the 
                        President;
                    ``(B) any determination by the designated agency 
                ethics official relating to the application or 
                implementation of the laws or regulations relating to 
                conflicts of interest or other ethics issues (including 
                this title) that the Director requests from the 
                designated agency ethics official.
            ``(2) The Director of the Office of Public Integrity--
                    ``(A) may review any determination received under 
                paragraph (1);
                    ``(B) shall notify and advise the designated agency 
                ethics official if the Director determines that the 
                determination received under paragraph (1) does not 
                comport with the laws or regulations relating to 
                conflicts of interest or other ethics issues;
                    ``(C) not later than 30 days after the notification 
                and advice under subparagraph (B), may reverse or 
                modify the determination if the Director determines 
                that the determination does not comport with the laws 
                or regulations relating to conflicts of interest or 
                other ethics issues; and
                    ``(D) shall periodically audit a sample of 
                determinations received under paragraph (1).''.
    (c) Authority To Recommend Discipline.--Section 111 of the Ethics 
in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), as amended by subsection 
(b), is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c)(1) If a designated agency ethics official has credible 
evidence or reason to believe that an officer or employee of the agency 
is violating, or has violated, any rule, regulation, or Executive order 
relating to conflicts of interest or standards of conduct, the 
designated agency ethics official may--
            ``(A) refer potential violations to the Inspector General 
        or the Director of the Office of Public Integrity; and
            ``(B) recommend that the head of the agency take a specific 
        disciplinary action (including dismissal).
    ``(2) A designated agency ethics official shall make publicly 
available any recommendation of a specific disciplinary action made by 
the designated agency ethics official under paragraph (1).''.
    (d) Current DAEOs.--An individual serving as a designated agency 
ethics official on the day before the date of enactment of this Act may 
continue to serve as the designated agency ethics official for the 
agency employing the individual if--
            (1) determined appropriate by the head of the agency 
        employing the designated agency ethics official; and
            (2) after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
        individual--
                    (A) reports directly to the head of the agency 
                employing the designated agency ethics official; and
                    (B) may only be removed by the head of the agency, 
                after consultation with the Director of the Office of 
                Public Integrity and the Inspector General of the 
                agency.

                     Subtitle B--Inspectors General

SEC. 531. GENERAL SUPERVISION AND REMOVAL OF INSPECTORS GENERAL.

    (a) In General.--The Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) 
is amended--
            (1) in section 3--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking the second 
                sentence and inserting the following: ``Each Inspector 
                General shall report to and be under the general 
                supervision of the Director of the Office of Public 
                Integrity, and shall not report to, or be subject to 
                supervision by, any other officer of the establishment 
                involved.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in the first sentence--
                                    (I) by inserting ``(1)'' before 
                                ``An Inspector General''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``for 
                                inefficiency, neglect of duty, or 
                                malfeasance in office'' before the 
                                period at the end;
                            (ii) by striking the second sentence and 
                        inserting the following: ``The Director of the 
                        Office of Public Integrity may make a formal 
                        recommendation to the President for the removal 
                        of an Inspector General under this subsection. 
                        If an Inspector General is removed from office, 
                        is transferred to another position or location 
                        within an establishment, or is placed on paid 
                        or unpaid leave, the President shall 
                        communicate in writing the reasons for any such 
                        removal, leave placement, or transfer to both 
                        Houses of Congress and to the Director of the 
                        Office of Public Integrity not later than 30 
                        days before the removal, leave placement, or 
                        transfer.''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2)(A) In the event of a vacancy in the position of Inspector 
General of an establishment of more than 210 days, the Director of the 
Office of Public Integrity may direct an officer or employee of the 
establishment to perform the functions and duties of the position of 
Inspector General temporarily in an acting capacity for a period of not 
more than 365 days.
    ``(B) If an Inspector General of an establishment is not appointed 
during the 365-day period described in subparagraph (A), the Director 
of the Office of Public Integrity may direct the same or another 
officer or employee of the establishment to perform the functions and 
duties of the position of Inspector General temporarily in an acting 
capacity for a period of not more than 365 days.
    ``(C) If an Inspector General of an establishment is not appointed 
during the 365-day period described in subparagraph (B), the Director 
of the Office of Public Integrity may direct the same or another 
officer or employee of the establishment to perform the functions and 
duties of the position of Inspector General temporarily in an acting 
capacity for a period of not more than 365 days.'';
            (2) in section 8A(a), by inserting ``and the Director of 
        the Office of Public Integrity'' before the period at the end;
            (3) in section 8B, by amending subsection (a) to read as 
        follows:
    ``(a) The Director of the Office of Public Integrity--
            ``(1) may delegate the authority specified in the second 
        sentence of section 3(a) to the Chairman or another member of 
        the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; and
            ``(2) may not delegate the authority specified in the 
        second sentence of section 3(a) to any other officer or 
        employee of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.'';
            (4) in section 8C, by amending subsection (a) to read as 
        follows:
    ``(a) Delegation.--The Director of the Office of Public Integrity--
            ``(1) may delegate the authority specified in the second 
        sentence of section 3(a) to the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson 
        of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and
            ``(2) may not delegate the authority specified in the 
        second sentence of section 3(a) to any other officer or 
        employee of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.'';
            (5) in section 8G--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and'' 
                        at the end;
                            (ii) in paragraph (6), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) the term `Director' means the Director of the Office 
        of Public Integrity.'';
                    (B) in subsection (c), in the first sentence, by 
                inserting ``, after consulting with the Director,'' 
                after ``head of the designated Federal entity'';
                    (C) in subsection (d)(1), by striking the first 
                sentence and inserting the following: ``Each Inspector 
                General shall report to and be under the general 
                supervision of the Director, and shall not report to, 
                or be subject to supervision by, any other officer or 
                employee of the designated Federal entity.''; and
                    (D) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and 
                        after consulting with the Director'' before the 
                        period at the end; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``An 
                        Inspector General may be removed from office by 
                        the head of the designated Federal entity for 
                        inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance 
                        in office after the head of the designated 
                        entity consults with the Director, or by the 
                        President for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or 
                        malfeasance in office.'' before ``If an 
                        Inspector''; and
            (6) in section 8M(b)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(iii)(II), by striking the 
                period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) ensure that, if any portion of a report 
                described in subparagraph (A) contains information that 
                is classified, sensitive, or otherwise prohibited from 
                disclosure by law, a redacted version of the report be 
                posted on the website of the Office of Inspector 
                General that does not contain the classified, 
                sensitive, or prohibited information;
                    ``(D) ensure that, if an entire report described in 
                subparagraph (A) is classified, sensitive, or otherwise 
                prohibited from disclosure by law, the Inspector 
                General posts the title of the report, the date of 
                publication of the report, a general description of the 
                subject matter of the report, and a justification for 
                the report not to be posted on the website of the 
                Office of Inspector General; and
                    ``(E) include on the website of the Office of 
                Inspector General a listing of each report described in 
                subparagraph (D) that is not posted on the website.''.
    (b) Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency.--Section 
17(b) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 
3517(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``of the Office of 
        Public Integrity, who may delegate that authority to the 
        Director of the Agency'' before the period at the end; and
            (2) in paragraph (6)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by inserting ``for 
                inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in 
                office'' before the period at the end; and
                    (B) by inserting after the first sentence the 
                following: ``The Director of the Office of Public 
                Integrity may make a formal recommendation to the 
                President for the removal of the Inspector General 
                under this paragraph.''.
    (c) Inspector General of the Intelligence Community.--Section 
103H(c) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3033(c)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``National Intelligence'' 
        and inserting ``the Office of Public Integrity, who may 
        delegate that authority to the Director of National 
        Intelligence''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by inserting ``for 
                inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in 
                office'' before the period at the end; and
                    (B) by inserting after the first sentence the 
                following: ``The Director of the Office of Public 
                Integrity may make a formal recommendation to the 
                President for the removal of the Inspector General 
                under this paragraph.''.
    (d) Inspector General of SIGAR.--Section 1229(e)(1) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
Stat. 379) is amended by striking ``the Secretary of State and the 
Secretary of Defense'' and inserting ``the Director of the Office of 
Public Integrity, who may delegate that authority to the Secretary of 
State and the Secretary of Defense''.
    (e) Inspector General of SIGTARP.--Section 121(b) of the Emergency 
Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5231(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(7) The Special Inspector General shall report to and be under 
the general supervision of the Director of the Office of Public 
Integrity, who may delegate that authority to the Secretary.''.
    (f) Conforming Amendments to Federal Vacancies Reform Act.--
Subchapter III of chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in section 3345--
                    (A) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``If'' and inserting 
                ``Subject to subsection (d), if'' and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) After the date that is 210 days after the date on which a 
vacancy in the office of the Inspector General of an agency described 
in subsection (a) begins, the President may not exercise the authority 
under this section with respect to that vacancy in the office of the 
Inspector General.'';
            (2) in section 3346--
                    (A) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by inserting ``and subject to subsection 
                (d),'' after ``sickness,''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) A person serving as acting officer in the office of the 
Inspector General of an agency under section 3345 may not serve in the 
office after the date that is 210 days after the date on which the 
vacancy in the office begins, without regard to whether a nomination to 
the office has been submitted to, is pending in, has been rejected by, 
has been withdrawn by the President from, or has been returned to the 
President by the Senate.'';
            (3) in section 3349(b), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by inserting ``, or, in the case of an Inspector General, 
        that an officer is serving after the end of the 210 day period 
        under section 3346(d),'' after ``3349a,''; and
            (4) in section 3349a(b), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``With'' and inserting ``Except in the case of 
        an Inspector General, with''.

               Subtitle C--Office of Congressional Ethics

SEC. 551. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle--
            (1) the term ``applicable ethics committee'' means the 
        Select Committee on Ethics of the Senate (for Senators and 
        employees of the Senate) or the Committee on Ethics of the 
        House of Representatives (for Members of the House of 
        Representatives and employees of the House of Representatives);
            (2) the term ``Board'' means the Congressional Ethics Board 
        established under section 553(a);
            (3) the term ``employee of Congress'' means an employee of 
        the House of Representatives or an employee of the Senate;
            (4) the term ``employee of the House of Representatives'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the 
        Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301) and 
        includes an elected or appointed officer of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (5) the term ``employee of the Senate'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 101 of the Congressional 
        Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301) and includes an 
        elected or appointed officer of the Senate; and
            (6) the term ``Member'' means any Senator or Representative 
        in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.

SEC. 552. THE OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL ETHICS.

    For the purpose of assisting the House of Representatives and the 
Senate in carrying out the responsibilities under article I, section 5, 
clause 2 of the Constitution of the United States (commonly referred to 
as the ``Discipline Clause''), there is established an independent 
office in the legislative branch to be known as the ``Office of 
Congressional Ethics'' (referred to in this subtitle as the 
``Office''), which shall be governed by the Congressional Ethics Board 
established under section 553(a).

SEC. 553. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BOARD OF THE OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL 
              ETHICS.

    (a) Board.--
            (1) Establishment of board.--The Office shall be governed 
        by a Congressional Ethics Board consisting of 9 members, of 
        whom--
                    (A) 2 shall be appointed by the Majority Leader of 
                the Senate;
                    (B) 2 shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of 
                the Senate;
                    (C) 2 shall be appointed by the Speaker of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (D) 2 shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of 
                the House of Representatives; and
                    (E) 1 shall be appointed by agreement of the 
                Majority Leader of the Senate, the Minority Leader of 
                the Senate, the Speaker of the House of 
                Representatives, and the Minority Leader of the House 
                of Representatives, or by agreement of not less than 3 
                of those individuals.
            (2) Qualifications of board members.--
                    (A) Expertise.--Each member of the Board shall be 
                an individual of exceptional public standing who is 
                specifically qualified to serve on the Board by virtue 
                of the individual's education, training, or experience 
                in 1 or more of the legislative, judicial, regulatory, 
                professional ethics, business, legal, or academic 
                fields.
                    (B) Selection basis.--Selection and appointment of 
                each member of the Board shall be without regard to 
                political affiliation and solely on the basis of 
                fitness to perform the duties of a member of the Board.
                    (C) Citizenship.--Each member of the Board shall be 
                a United States citizen.
                    (D) Disqualifications.--No individual shall be 
                eligible for appointment to, or service on, the Board 
                who--
                            (i) has ever been registered, or required 
                        to be registered, as a lobbyist under the 
                        Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 
                        et seq.);
                            (ii) engages in, or is otherwise employed 
                        in, lobbying of the Congress;
                            (iii) is registered or is required to be 
                        registered as an agent of a foreign principal 
                        under the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 
                        1938 (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.);
                            (iv) is, or has been in the 4 years 
                        preceding the date of appointment, a Member, 
                        employee of the Senate, or employee of the 
                        House of Representatives;
                            (v) is an officer or employee of the 
                        Federal Government;
                            (vi) during the 4 years preceding the date 
                        of appointment, engaged in any significant 
                        political activity (including being a candidate 
                        for public office, fundraising for a candidate 
                        for public office or a political party, or 
                        serving as an officer or employee of a 
                        political campaign or party); or
                            (vii) during the 4 years preceding the date 
                        of appointment, served as a fiduciary or 
                        personal attorney for an officer or employee of 
                        the Federal Government, including any Member.
            (3) Term and removal.--
                    (A) Length of term.--The term of a member of the 
                Board shall be for 2 Congresses.
                    (B) Term limits.--A member of the Board may not 
                serve during 4 consecutive Congresses.
                    (C) Removal.--A member of the Board may be removed 
                only for cause and upon unanimous agreement among the 
                Majority Leader and the Minority Leader of the Senate 
                and the Speaker and the Minority Leader of the House of 
                Representatives.
                    (D) Vacancies.--Any vacancy on the Board shall be 
                filled for the unexpired portion of the term in the 
                same manner, and by the same appointing authority, as 
                the original appointment under paragraph (1).
    (b) Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson.--
            (1) In general.--The members of the Board shall elect a 
        chairperson and a vice-chairperson of the Board by a majority 
        vote. The chairperson and the vice-chairperson shall serve a 1-
        year term, and may be reelected for additional 1-year terms.
            (2) Duties.--The chairperson of the Board shall preside at 
        the meetings of the Board, and the vice-chairperson shall 
        preside in the absence or disability of the chairperson.
    (c) Meetings.--
            (1) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Board shall 
        constitute a quorum, except that a lesser number of members may 
        hold hearings.
            (2) Meetings.--The Board shall meet at the call of the 
        chairperson or the call of a majority of its members, pursuant 
        to the rules of the Board.
            (3) Voting.--Except as otherwise specifically provided, a 
        majority vote of the Board under this subtitle shall require an 
        affirmative vote of 5 or more members.
    (d) Compensation.--A member of the Board shall not be considered to 
be an officer or employee of the House or Senate, but shall be 
compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the minimum 
annual rate of basic pay prescribed for GS-15 of the General Schedule 
under section 5107 of title 5, United States Code, for each day 
(including travel time) during which such member is engaged in the 
performance of the duties of the Board.
    (e) Duties of Board.--
            (1) In general.--The Board shall--
                    (A) be the governing body of the Office, and 
                oversee the Office in the implementation of all duties 
                required under this subtitle; and
                    (B) review each complaint made against a Member or 
                employee of Congress through the review process 
                described in section 555(b).
            (2) Hearings.--The Board may hold such hearings as are 
        necessary and may sit and act only in executive session at such 
        times and places, solicit such testimony, and receive such 
        relevant evidence, as may be necessary to carry out its duties.
    (f) Financial Disclosure Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Each member of the Board shall file an 
        annual financial disclosure report with the Secretary of the 
        Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives on or 
        before May 15 of each calendar year immediately following any 
        year in which the member served on the Board. Each such report 
        shall be on a form prepared jointly by the Clerk and the 
        Secretary that is substantially similar to the form required 
        for individuals at the executive branch who must complete a 
        confidential financial disclosure report under section 102 of 
        the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
            (2) Distribution of report.--The Secretary of the Senate 
        and the Clerk of the House of Representatives, working jointly, 
        shall--
                    (A) not later than 7 days after the date each 
                financial disclosure report under paragraph (1) is 
                filed, send a copy of each such report to the 
                applicable ethics committees; and
                    (B) annually print all such financial disclosure 
                reports as a document of Congress, and make the 
                document available to the public.

SEC. 554. DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE OFFICE AND THE BOARD.

    (a) In General.--The Office is authorized--
            (1) in accordance with section 555--
                    (A) to investigate any alleged violation, by a 
                Member or employee of Congress, of any ethics law 
                (including regulations), rule, or other standard of 
                conduct applicable to the conduct of such Member or 
                employee under applicable House or Senate rules in the 
                performance of the duties, or the discharge of the 
                responsibilities, of the Member or employee; and
                    (B) in any case where the Board determines, after 
                the investigation described in subparagraph (A), that 
                there was a probable violation of any ethics law, rule, 
                or other standard of conduct described in such 
                subparagraph, to present the probable ethics violation 
                to the applicable ethics committee;
            (2) to refer to appropriate Federal or State authorities, 
        including the Office of Public Integrity and the Department of 
        Justice as appropriate, any evidence of a violation by a Member 
        or employee of Congress of any law (including laws applicable 
        to the performance of the duties, or the discharge of the 
        responsibilities, of the Member or employee), which may have 
        been disclosed in an investigation by the Office, in accordance 
        with subsection (b);
            (3) to provide advice and informal guidance to Members and 
        employees of Congress regarding any ethics law (including 
        regulations), rule, or other standard of conduct applicable to 
        such individuals in their official capacities, and develop and 
        carry out periodic educational briefings for Members and 
        employees of Congress on those laws, rules, and other 
        standards;
            (4)(A) to give consideration to the request of any Member 
        or employee of Congress for a formal advisory opinion or other 
        formal ruling, subject to the approval of the applicable ethics 
        committee, with respect to the general propriety of any current 
        or proposed conduct of such Member or employee;
            (B) to provide a formal advisory opinion or other formal 
        ruling, in accordance with subparagraph (A), in situations that 
        the Board determines appropriate; and
            (C) subject to the requirement for approval by the 
        applicable ethics committee in accordance with subsection (c), 
        and with appropriate deletions to assure the privacy of the 
        individual concerned, to publish such opinion for the guidance 
        of other Members and employees of Congress;
            (5) if the Office determines, during the course of any 
        investigation under this subtitle, that a lobbyist or lobbying 
        firm may be in noncompliance with the Lobbying Disclosure Act 
        of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.),--
                    (A) to notify the United States Attorney for the 
                District of Columbia and the Director of the Office of 
                Public Integrity of the potential violation; and
                    (B) to notify the lobbyist or lobbying firm of such 
                determination, in writing;
            (6) to provide informal guidance to lobbyists or lobbying 
        firms engaged in lobbying activity or lobbying contacts under 
        the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) to 
        covered legislative branch officials (as defined in section 3 
        of such Act (2 U.S.C. 1602)) of their responsibilities under 
        such Act;
            (7) to aid in the enforcement of ethics requirements for 
        Members or employees of Congress under this subtitle or any 
        other provision of law; and
            (8) to administer the process for Members and employees of 
        Congress to seek and receive any waivers from any ethics law 
        (including regulations), rule, or other standard that applies 
        to Members and employees of Congress, subject to approval of 
        the applicable ethics committee.
    (b) Referrals to Law Enforcement Officials.--
            (1) In general.--Upon a majority vote of the Board, the 
        Office may refer potential legal violations committed by a 
        Member or employee of Congress to the Department of Justice or 
        other relevant Federal or State law enforcement officials, 
        which referral shall include all appropriate evidence gathered 
        during any review conducted under this subtitle.
            (2) No approval required.--A referral under paragraph (1) 
        does not require the approval of either of the applicable 
        ethics committees.
            (3) Notification.--The Board shall notify the Select 
        Committee on Ethics of the Senate or the Committee on Ethics of 
        the House of Representatives, and the Director of the Office of 
        Public Integrity of all referrals under this subsection.
    (c) Advisory Opinions.--
            (1) In general.--Upon a majority vote of the Board, the 
        Office may draft and publish recommended formal advisory 
        opinions and interpretations of rules and other standards of 
        conduct applicable to Members and employees of Congress, which 
        shall be submitted to each applicable ethics committee for 
        approval.
            (2) Requirements for ethics committee review.--Each 
        applicable ethics committee may revise, overturn, dismiss, or 
        issue any recommended formal advisory opinions or 
        interpretations under paragraph (1) that is applicable to the 
        Members and employees of that House of Congress. A recommended 
        formal advisory opinion or interpretation under paragraph (1) 
        is only binding if issued by one of the applicable ethics 
        committees.
            (3) Requirements.--Any applicable ethics committee decision 
        described in paragraph (2) shall be recorded and made publicly 
        available, and shall be accompanied by a written explanation 
        for that action. Dissenting members of the applicable ethics 
        committee are allowed to issue their own report detailing 
        reasons for disagreeing with the decision.
    (d) Limitations on Review.--No review shall be undertaken by the 
Board of any alleged violation of law, rule, regulation or standard of 
conduct not in effect at the time of the alleged violation, nor shall 
any review be undertaken by the Board of any alleged violation that 
occurred before the date of enactment of this Act.
    (e) Prohibition on Public Disclosure.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Required affirmation by members and staff.--
                When an individual becomes a member of the Board or 
                employee of the Office, that individual shall execute 
                the following oath or affirmation in writing: ``I do 
                solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will not disclose to 
                any person or entity outside of the Office any 
                information received in the course of my service with 
                the Office, except as authorized by the Board by 
                majority vote as necessary to conduct official business 
                or pursuant to its rules.''. Copies of the executed 
                oath shall be provided to the Clerk of the House of 
                Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate as part 
                of the records of the House and Senate.
                    (B) Prohibition on public disclosure.--No testimony 
                received, or any other information obtained, by a 
                member of the Board or employee of the Office shall be 
                publicly disclosed to any person or entity outside the 
                Office, unless approved by a majority vote of the 
                Board. Any communication to any person or entity 
                outside the Office may occur only as authorized by the 
                Board.
                    (C) Procedures and investigation.--The Office shall 
                establish procedures necessary to prevent the 
                unauthorized disclosure of any information received by 
                the Office. Any breaches of confidentiality shall be 
                investigated by the Board and appropriate action shall 
                be taken.
            (2) Provision with respect to office of public integrity or 
        ethics committees.--Paragraph (1) shall not preclude--
                    (A) any member of the Board or any employee of the 
                Office from presenting a report or findings of the 
                Board, or testifying before the Select Committee on 
                Ethics of the Senate or the Committee on Ethics of the 
                House of Representatives by any member of the Board or 
                employee of the Office, if requested by either 
                committee pursuant to the rules of the committee;
                    (B) any necessary communication with the Office of 
                Public Integrity;
                    (C) any necessary communication with the Department 
                of Justice or any other law enforcement agency; or
                    (D) any necessary communication with the Majority 
                Leader of the Senate, Minority Leader of the Senate, 
                Speaker of the House of Representatives, or Minority 
                Leader of the House of Representatives.
            (3) Opportunity to present.--Before the Board votes on a 
        recommendation or statement to be transmitted to the 
        appropriate congressional committee relating to official 
        conduct of any Member or employee of Congress, the Board shall 
        provide that individual the opportunity to present, orally or 
        in writing (at the discretion of the Board), a statement to the 
        Board.
    (f) Presentation of Reports to Select Committee on Ethics of the 
Senate or the Committee on Ethics of the House of Representatives.--
Whenever the Board transmits any report to the applicable ethics 
committee relating to the official conduct of any Member or employee of 
Congress, it shall designate a member of the Board or employee to 
present the report to such committee if requested by such committee.
    (g) Maintaining of Financial Disclosure Reports.--The Office shall 
receive, and maintain, a copy of each report filed under section 101 of 
the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) by a Member or 
employee of Congress.
    (h) Memorandum of Understanding With the Office of Public 
Integrity.--The Office shall enter into a memorandum of understanding 
with the Director of the Office of Public Integrity in order--
            (1) to share any information necessary for the execution of 
        each office's respective duties and responsibilities, including 
        the copies of reports described in subsection (g);
            (2) to ensure consistent interpretation and enforcement of 
        the Nation's ethics laws for executive and legislative branch 
        employees and officials; and
            (3) to reduce and mitigate jurisdictional confusion.

SEC. 555. REVIEW PROCESS OF COMPLAINTS.

    (a) Source of Complaints.--
            (1) Citizen complaints.--
                    (A) Citizen initiated sworn complaint.--Any citizen 
                of the United States, including a Member or employee of 
                Congress, may file with the Office a sworn complaint 
                alleging a violation by a Member or employee of 
                Congress of any law (including any regulation), rule, 
                or other standard of conduct applicable to the conduct 
                of such Member or employee in the performance of the 
                duties, or the discharge of the responsibilities, of 
                the Member or employee, subject to subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Ban on filing prior to election.--The Board may 
                not accept citizen complaints regarding the conduct of 
                a Member filed in the--
                            (i) 30 days prior to a primary election for 
                        which the Member in question is a candidate; 
                        and
                            (ii) 60 days prior to a general election 
                        for which the Member in question is a 
                        candidate.
                    (C) Content.--The complaint under subparagraph (A) 
                shall be a notarized written statement alleging a 
                violation against 1 or more named persons and stating 
                the essential facts constituting the violation charged.
            (2) Board member or office of congressional ethics 
        initiated complaint.--A member of the Board or an employee of 
        the Office may file a complaint alleging a violation by a 
        Member or employee of Congress of any law (including any 
        regulation), rule, or other standard of conduct applicable to 
        the conduct of such Member or employee in the performance of 
        the duties, or the discharge of the responsibilities, of the 
        Member or employee.
            (3) Notification.--Upon receipt of a complaint filed under 
        paragraph (1) or (2) that meets the requirements of this 
        subsection, the Office shall--
                    (A) notify the person alleged to have committed the 
                violation that a complaint has been filed; and
                    (B) refer the complaint to the Board for 
                consideration under the review process described in 
                subsection (b).
    (b) Review Process of Alleged Violations by Members or Employees of 
Congress.--
            (1) Request.--After receiving a complaint under subsection 
        (a)(3)(B), 2 or more members of the Board may submit a joint 
        written statement to all members of the Board authorizing the 
        Office to undertake a preliminary review of any alleged 
        violation by a Member or employee of Congress of any law 
        (including any regulation), rule, or other standard of conduct 
        applicable to the conduct of such Member or employee in the 
        performance of the duties, or the discharge of the 
        responsibilities, of the Member or employee, along with a brief 
        description of the specific matter.
            (2) Preliminary review.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 7 business days 
                after receipt of an authorization statement from 2 or 
                more members of the Board under paragraph (1), the 
                Board shall--
                            (i) instruct the Office to initiate a 
                        preliminary review of the alleged violation; 
                        and
                            (ii) provide a written notification of the 
                        commencement of the preliminary review, 
                        including a statement of the nature of the 
                        review, to--
                                    (I) the applicable ethics 
                                committee;
                                    (II) any individual who is the 
                                subject of the preliminary review; and
                                    (III) the Director of the Office of 
                                Public Integrity.
                    (B) Opportunity to terminate preliminary review.--
                At any time, the Board may, by a majority vote, 
                terminate a preliminary review on any ground, including 
                that the matter under review is de minimis in nature. 
                If the Board votes to terminate the preliminary 
                review--
                            (i) the review process under this section 
                        is completed and no further actions shall be 
                        taken; and
                            (ii) the Board--
                                    (I) shall notify, in writing, the 
                                individual who was the subject of the 
                                preliminary review, the Director of the 
                                Office of Public Integrity, and the 
                                applicable ethics committee, of its 
                                decision to terminate the review of the 
                                matter; and
                                    (II) may, in any case where the 
                                Board votes to terminate the 
                                preliminary review, send a report, 
                                including any findings of the Board, to 
                                the applicable ethics committee and to 
                                the Director of the Office of Public 
                                Integrity.
            (3) Second-phase review process.--
                    (A) Vote for second-phase review.--
                            (i) In general.--After the preliminary 
                        review conducted under paragraph (2) is 
                        completed, the Board shall vote on whether to 
                        authorize a second-phase review of the matter 
                        under consideration. If there is an affirmative 
                        vote of 4 or more members of the Board to 
                        authorize the second-phase review, the Board 
                        shall authorize the second-phase review process 
                        in accordance with subparagraph (B).
                            (ii) Termination of matter.--If a vote to 
                        authorize a second-phase review under clause 
                        (i) does not succeed, the review process under 
                        this section shall be completed and no further 
                        actions shall be taken.
                            (iii) Notification to parties.--The Board--
                                    (I) shall notify, in writing, the 
                                individual who was the subject of the 
                                preliminary review, the Director of the 
                                Office of Public Integrity, and the 
                                applicable ethics committee, of its 
                                decision to authorize a second-phase 
                                review of the matter or to terminate 
                                the review process; and
                                    (II) may, in any case where the 
                                Board decides to terminate the review 
                                process of the violation under clause 
                                (ii), send a report, including any 
                                findings of the Board, to the 
                                applicable ethics committee and to the 
                                Director of the Office of Public 
                                Integrity.
                    (B) Second-phase review.--In any case where a 
                second-phase review is required, the Board shall 
                authorize the Office to commence, and complete, a 
                second-phase review.
                    (C) Completion of second-phase review.--Upon the 
                completion of any second-phase review, the Board 
                shall--
                            (i) evaluate the review and determine, 
                        based on a majority vote, whether--
                                    (I) the applicable ethics committee 
                                should dismiss the matter that was the 
                                subject of such review, which may be 
                                made on any ground, including that the 
                                matter under review is de minimis in 
                                nature;
                                    (II) the matter requires further 
                                review by the applicable ethics 
                                committee; or
                                    (III) the applicable ethics 
                                committee should take action relating 
                                to the matter, including any 
                                recommendation for the disciplinary 
                                action or sanctions that the committee 
                                should take;
                            (ii) transmit to the applicable ethics 
                        committee a written report that includes--
                                    (I) a statement of the nature of 
                                the review and the Member or employee 
                                of Congress who is the subject of the 
                                review, including any probable ethics 
                                violations uncovered in either the 
                                preliminary or second-phase review;
                                    (II) any recommendations of the 
                                Board based on votes conducted under 
                                clause (i), or a statement that the 
                                matter is unresolved because of a tie 
                                vote of the Board or a failure to meet 
                                the majority vote threshold established 
                                under section 553(c)(3);
                                    (III) a description of the number 
                                of members voting in the affirmative 
                                and in the negative for any action 
                                described in clause (i);
                                    (IV) any findings of the Board, 
                                including--
                                            (aa) any findings of fact;
                                            (bb) a description of any 
                                        relevant information that the 
                                        Board was unable to obtain or 
                                        witnesses whom the Board was 
                                        unable to interview, and the 
                                        reasons therefor; and
                                            (cc) a citation of any 
                                        relevant law, regulation, or 
                                        standard of conduct relating to 
                                        the violation; and
                                    (V) any supporting documentation;
                            (iii) transmit to the individual who is the 
                        subject of the second-phase review the written 
                        report of the Board described in clause (ii);
                            (iv) transmit to the Director of the Office 
                        of Public Integrity the written report of the 
                        Board described in clause (ii), and may include 
                        any recommendations for action by the Director 
                        that the Board may recommend; and
                            (v) make public, on a website maintained by 
                        the Office, the written report of the Board 
                        described in clause (ii), unless a majority of 
                        the members of the Board vote to withhold the 
                        report from the public where public disclosure 
                        could compromise the ability of the applicable 
                        ethics committee or a law enforcement agency to 
                        act on probable ethics violations.
                    (D) Authority for reprimand.--Upon the completion 
                of any second-phase review, the Board--
                            (i) may, upon a majority vote, reprimand, 
                        in writing, the alleged violator for potential 
                        violations of the law;
                            (ii) in any case where a reprimand under 
                        clause (i) is issued, shall provide a copy of 
                        the reprimand to--
                                    (I) the presiding officer of the 
                                House of Congress in which the alleged 
                                violator serves (if such individual is 
                                a Member of Congress); or
                                    (II) the alleged violator's 
                                employer, if the individual is an 
                                employee of Congress; and
                            (iii) may make the reprimand available to 
                        the public.
    (c) Requests From Applicable Ethics Committees.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this subtitle, upon receipt of a written request from an 
        applicable ethics committee that the Board cease its review of 
        any matter and refer such matter to the committee because of 
        the ongoing investigation of such matter by the committee, the 
        Board shall refer such matter to the committee, cease its 
        preliminary or second-phase review, as applicable, of that 
        matter and so notify any individual who is the subject of the 
        review. In any such case, the Board shall send a written report 
        to the committee containing a statement that, upon the request 
        of that committee, the matter is referred to it for its 
        consideration. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to 
        prevent the Board from sending any information regarding the 
        matter to the Director of the Office of Public Integrity or to 
        other law enforcement agencies.
            (2) Resumption of review.--If the applicable ethics 
        committee notifies the Board in writing that it is unable to 
        resolve any matter described in paragraph (1), the Board may 
        begin or continue, as the case may be, a second-phase review of 
        the matter in accordance with subsection (b)(3).
    (d) Procedures.--
            (1) Review powers.--Members of the Board or employees of 
        the Office may, during either an initial review or second-phase 
        review--
                    (A) administer oaths;
                    (B) require, by subpoena or otherwise, the 
                attendance and testimony of such witnesses and the 
                production of such books, records, correspondence, 
                accounts, memoranda, papers, documents, tapes, and 
                materials as the Board or the Office considers 
                advisable;
                    (C) take the deposition of witnesses; and
                    (D) conduct general audits of filings under the 
                Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et 
                seq.).
            (2) Witnesses.--
                    (A) Witnesses.--Any witness interviewed as part of 
                a review under this section shall sign a statement 
                acknowledging that the witness understands that section 
                1001 of title 18, United States Code (popularly known 
                as the ``False Statements Act''), applies to the 
                testimony of the witness and to any documents the 
                witness provides.
                    (B) Payment.--Witnesses appearing before the Office 
                may be paid in the same manner as prescribed by clause 
                5 of rule XI of the Rules of the House of 
                Representatives, as in effect on the day before the 
                date of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Prohibition of ex parte communications.--There shall be 
        no ex parte communications between any member of the Board or 
        employee of the Office and any individual who is the subject of 
        any review by the Board or between any member of the Board and 
        any interested party, and no Member or employee of the Congress 
        may communicate with any member of the Board or employee of the 
        Office regarding any matter under review by the Board except as 
        authorized by the Board.
            (4) Contempt of congress.--If a person disobeys or refuses 
        to comply with a subpoena, or if a witness refuses to testify 
        to a matter, the Board may recommend to the applicable ethics 
        committee that such person be held in contempt of Congress.
    (e) Protection From Frivolous Charges.--
            (1) Civil penalty for initial complaint.--
                    (A) False complaint.--It shall be unlawful for any 
                person to knowingly file with the Office a false 
                complaint of misconduct by any Member or employee of 
                Congress.
                    (B) Encouragement to file false complaint.--It 
                shall be unlawful for any person to encourage another 
                person to file a false complaint of misconduct by any 
                Member or employee of Congress.
                    (C) Action by office of public integrity.--The 
                Director of the Office of Public Integrity, after 
                providing notice and an opportunity for a hearing, may 
                impose a civil penalty on any person who violates 
                subparagraph (A) or (B) in the amount of the greater 
                of--
                            (i) $10,000; or
                            (ii) the cost of the preliminary review.
            (2) Ban on all subsequent complaints.--Any person upon whom 
        the Director of the Office of Public Integrity imposes a civil 
        penalty under paragraph (1)(C) may not file a complaint with 
        the Board again.

SEC. 556. PERSONNEL MATTERS.

    (a) Compensation of Employees.--
            (1) Appointment.--Upon a majority vote of the Board, the 
        Board may appoint and fix the compensation of such 
        professional, nonpartisan staff (including staff with relevant 
        experience in investigations and law enforcement) of the Office 
        as the Board considers necessary to perform its duties.
            (2) Qualifications.--Each employee of the Office shall be 
        professional and demonstrably qualified for the position for 
        which the employee is hired.
            (3) Staffing requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--The employees of the Office shall 
                be assembled and retained as a professional, 
                nonpartisan staff, and the Office as a whole, and each 
                individual employee, shall perform all official duties 
                in a nonpartisan manner.
                    (B) No partisan political activity.--No employee of 
                the Office shall engage in any partisan political 
                activity directly affecting any congressional or 
                presidential election.
                    (C) Limitation or public speaking or publication.--
                No employee of the Office may accept public speaking 
                engagements or write for publication on any subject 
                that is in any way related to the employee's employment 
                or duties with the Office without specific prior 
                approval from the chairperson and vice-chairperson of 
                the Board.
    (b) Termination of Employees.--The employment of an employee of the 
Office may be terminated during a Congress solely by a majority vote of 
the Board.
    (c) Reimbursements.--Members of the Board, and employees of the 
Office, may be reimbursed for travel, subsistence, and other necessary 
expenses incurred by members or employees in the performance of their 
duties in the same manner as is permissible for such expenses of other 
employees of the House or Senate.
    (d) Agreements for Members and Employees; Retention of Documents by 
the Clerk.--
            (1) In general.--Before any individual who is appointed to 
        serve on the Board or before any individual is hired to be an 
        employee of the Office may do so, the individual shall execute 
        a signed document containing the following statement: ``I agree 
        not to be a candidate for the office of Senator or 
        Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the 
        Congress for purposes of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 
        1971 until at least 4 years after I am no longer a member of 
        the Congressional Ethics Board or employee of the Office of 
        Congressional Ethics.''.
            (2) Retention of documents.--Copies of the signed and 
        executed document shall be retained by the Clerk of the House 
        of Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate as part of 
        the records of the House and the Senate. The Clerk and the 
        Secretary, working jointly, shall make the signatures a matter 
        of public record, causing the names of each individual who has 
        signed the document to be published in a portion of the 
        Congressional Record designed for that purpose, and make 
        cumulative lists of such names available on the websites of the 
        Clerk and the Secretary.
    (e) Code of Conduct.--The Board--
            (1) shall establish a code of conduct to govern the 
        behavior of the members of the Board and the employee of the 
        Office, which shall include the avoidance of conflicts of 
        interest; and
            (2) may issue other rules as the Board determines necessary 
        to carry out the functions of the Board and the Office.

SEC. 557. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subtitle 
such sums as may be necessary.

SEC. 558. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.

    (a) Conforming Amendments to the Ethics in Government Act of 
1978.--Section 109(18) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (D), as 
        amended, as subparagraphs (B) through (E), respectively;
            (2) by inserting before subparagraph (B), as redesignated 
        by paragraph (1) of this subsection, the following:
                    ``(A) the Office of Congressional Ethics 
                established under section 552 of the Anti-Corruption 
                and Public Integrity Act, for Senators, Members of the 
                House of Representatives, officers and employees of the 
                Senate, and officers and employees of the House of 
                Representatives required to file financial disclosure 
                reports with the Secretary of the Senate pursuant to 
                section 103(h) of this title;'';
            (3) in subparagraph (B) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``Senators, officers and employees of the Senate, and other 
        officers or employees of the legislative branch'' and inserting 
        ``officers or employees of the legislative branch not described 
        in subparagraph (A)''; and
            (4) in subparagraph (C) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``Members, officers and employees of the House of 
        Representatives and other officers or employees of the 
        legislative branch'' and inserting ``officers or employees of 
        the legislative branch not described in subparagraph (A)''.
    (b) Termination of the Office of Congressional Ethics of the House 
of Representatives.--Beginning on the date on which all members of the 
Board are appointed, the Office of Congressional Ethics of the House of 
Representatives shall be eliminated and section 1 of H. Res. 895 (110th 
Congress, March 11, 2008) shall cease to have any force or effect.
    (c) Rulemaking Authority.--The provisions of this subtitle are 
enacted--
            (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate 
        and of the House of Representatives, and as such they shall be 
        considered as part of the rules of the Senate and the House, 
        respectively, and shall supersede other rules only to the 
        extent that they are inconsistent therewith; and
            (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
        the Senate and the House of Representatives to change such 
        rules at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent 
        as in the case of any other rule of the Senate or House of 
        Representatives.

                       Subtitle D--Applicability

SEC. 571. APPLICABILITY.

    This title and the amendments made by this title shall apply on and 
after the date of enactment of this Act.

             TITLE VI--TRANSPARENCY AND GOVERNMENT RECORDS

   Subtitle A--Transparency for Federal Personnel and Candidates for 
                             Federal Office

SEC. 601. CATEGORIES RELATING TO THE AMOUNT OR VALUE OF CERTAIN INCOME.

    Section 102 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(B)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                        striking ``which of the following categories 
                        the amount or value of such item of income is 
                        within'' and inserting ``the amount or value of 
                        such item of income in accordance with the 
                        following'';
                            (ii) by redesignating clauses (i) through 
                        (iv) as subclauses (I) through (IV), 
                        respectively, and adjusting the margin 
                        accordingly;
                            (iii) by inserting before subclause (I), as 
                        so redesignated, the following:
                            ``(i) For items of income with an amount or 
                        value of not more than $25,000, which of the 
                        following categories the amount or value of 
                        such item of income is within:'';
                            (iv) in clause (i)(III), as so designated, 
                        by adding ``or'' at the end;
                            (v) in clause (i)(IV), as so designated, by 
                        striking ``$15,000,'' and inserting 
                        ``$25,000.''; and
                            (vi) by striking clauses (v) through (ix) 
                        and inserting the following:
                            ``(ii) For items of income with an amount 
                        or value of greater than $25,000, the amount or 
                        value of the item of income, rounded as 
                        follows:
                                    ``(I) For items of income with an 
                                amount or value of greater than $25,000 
                                but not more than $100,000, the amount 
                                or value rounded to the nearest 
                                $10,000.
                                    ``(II) For items of income with an 
                                amount or value of greater than 
                                $100,000 but not more than $1,000,000, 
                                the amount or value rounded to the 
                                nearest $100,000.
                                    ``(III) For items of income with an 
                                amount or value of greater than 
                                $1,000,000, the amount or value rounded 
                                to the nearest $1,000,000.'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``category of 
                value'' and inserting ``value, in accordance with 
                subsection (d)(2),''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (4), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``category of value'' and 
                inserting ``value, in accordance with subsection 
                (d)(2),''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``(3), (4), (5), and 
                (8)'' and inserting ``(5) and (8)'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
                (3); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
    ``(2) The amount or value of the items covered in paragraphs (3) 
and (4) of subsection (a) shall be reported as follows:
            ``(A) For items with an amount or value of not more than 
        $25,000, which of the following categories the amount or value 
        of such item is within:
                    ``(i) Not more than $15,000.
                    ``(ii) Greater than $15,000 but not more than 
                $25,000.
            ``(B) For items with an amount or value of greater than 
        $25,000, the amount or value of the item, rounded as follows:
                    ``(i) For items with an amount or value of greater 
                than $25,000 but not more than $100,000, the amount or 
                value rounded to the nearest $10,000.
                    ``(ii) For items with an amount or value of greater 
                than $100,000 but not more than $1,000,000, the amount 
                or value rounded to the nearest $100,000.
                    ``(iii) For items with an amount or value of 
                greater than $1,000,000, the amount or value rounded to 
                the nearest $1,000,000.''.

SEC. 602. DISCLOSURE OF PERSONAL INCOME TAX RETURNS BY PRESIDENTS, VICE 
              PRESIDENTS, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, AND CERTAIN CANDIDATES.

    (a) In General.--Title I of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) by inserting after section 102 the following:

``SEC. 102A. DISCLOSURE OF PERSONAL INCOME TAX RETURNS BY PRESIDENTS, 
              VICE PRESIDENTS, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, AND CERTAIN 
              CANDIDATES.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
            ``(1) the term `covered candidate' means an individual--
                    ``(A) required to file a report under section 
                101(c); and
                    ``(B) who is nominated by a major party as a 
                candidate for the office of President, Vice President, 
                or Member of Congress;
            ``(2) the term `covered individual' means--
                    ``(A) a President, Vice President, or Member of 
                Congress required to file a report under subsection (a) 
                or (d) of section 101; and
                    ``(B) an individual who occupies the office of the 
                President, Vice President, or a Member of Congress 
                required to file a report under section 101(e);
            ``(3) the term `income tax return' means, with respect to 
        any covered candidate or covered individual, any return (within 
        the meaning of section 6103(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986) related to Federal income taxes, but does not include--
                    ``(A) information returns issued to persons other 
                than such covered candidate or covered individual; and
                    ``(B) declarations of estimated tax; and
            ``(4) the term `major party' has the meaning given the term 
        in section 9002 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
    ``(b) Disclosure.--
            ``(1) Covered individuals.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In addition to the information 
                described in subsections (a) and (b) of section 102, a 
                covered individual shall include in each report 
                required to be filed under this title a copy of the 
                income tax returns of the covered individual for--
                            ``(i) with respect to the President or Vice 
                        President, the 8 most recent taxable years and 
                        every year the individual was in Federal 
                        elected office for which a return have been 
                        filed with the Internal Revenue Service as of 
                        the date on which the report is filed; and
                            ``(ii) with respect to a Member of 
                        Congress, the 2 most recent taxable years and 
                        every year the individual was in Federal 
                        elected office for which a return has been 
                        filed with the Internal Revenue Service as of 
                        the date on which the report is filed.
                    ``(B) Failure to disclose.--If an income tax return 
                is not disclosed under subparagraph (A), the Director 
                of the Office of Public Integrity shall submit to the 
                Secretary of the Treasury a request that the Secretary 
                of the Treasury provide the Director of the Office of 
                Public Integrity with a copy of the income tax return.
                    ``(C) Publicly available.--Each income tax return 
                submitted under this paragraph shall be filed with the 
                Director of the Office of Public Integrity and made 
                publicly available in the same manner as the 
                information described in subsections (a) and (b) of 
                section 102.
                    ``(D) Redaction of certain information.--Before 
                making any income tax return submitted under this 
                paragraph available to the public, the Director of the 
                Office of Public Integrity shall redact such 
                information as the Director of the Office of Public 
                Integrity, in consultation with the Secretary of the 
                Treasury determines appropriate.
            ``(2) Candidates.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 15 days after the 
                date on which a covered candidate is nominated, the 
                covered candidate shall amend the report filed by the 
                covered candidate under section 101(c) with the Federal 
                Election Commission to include a copy of the income tax 
                returns of the covered candidate for--
                            ``(i) with respect to a candidate for 
                        nomination or election to the office of 
                        President or Vice President, the 8 most recent 
                        taxable years and every year the individual was 
                        in Federal elected office for which a return 
                        has been filed with the Internal Revenue 
                        Service; and
                            ``(ii) with respect to a candidate for 
                        nomination or election to the office of Member 
                        of Congress, the 2 most recent taxable years 
                        and every year the individual was in Federal 
                        elected office for which a return has been 
                        filed with the Internal Revenue Service.
                    ``(B) Failure to disclose.--If an income tax return 
                is not disclosed under subparagraph (A) the Federal 
                Election Commission shall submit to the Secretary of 
                the Treasury a request that the Secretary of the 
                Treasury provide the Federal Election Commission with 
                the income tax return.
                    ``(C) Publicly available.--Each income tax return 
                submitted under this paragraph shall be filed with the 
                Federal Election Commission and made publicly available 
                in the same manner as the information described in 
                section 102(b).
                    ``(D) Redaction of certain information.--Before 
                making any income tax return submitted under this 
                paragraph available to the public, the Federal Election 
                Commission shall redact such information as the Federal 
                Election Commission, in consultation with the Secretary 
                of the Treasury and the Director of the Office of 
                Public Integrity, determines appropriate.
            ``(3) Special rule for sitting presidents.--Not later than 
        30 days after the date of enactment of this section, the 
        President shall submit to the Director of the Office of Public 
        Integrity a copy of the income tax returns described in 
        paragraph (1)(A)(i).''; and
            (2) in section 104--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), in the first 
                        sentence, by inserting ``, 102B, or 102C, or 
                        any individual who knowingly and willfully 
                        falsifies or who knowingly and willfully fails 
                        to file an income tax return that such 
                        individual is required to disclose pursuant to 
                        section 102A, 102B, or 102C'' before the 
                        period; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)(A)--
                                    (I) in clause (i), by inserting 
                                ``102B, or 102C, or falsify any income 
                                tax return that such person is required 
                                to disclose under section 102A, 102B, 
                                or 102C'' before the semicolon; and
                                    (II) in clause (ii), by inserting 
                                ``102B, or 102C, or fail to file any 
                                income tax return that such person is 
                                required to disclosed under section 
                                102A, 102B, or 102C'' before the 
                                period;
                    (B) in subsection (b), in the first sentence by 
                inserting ``or willfully failed to file or has 
                willfully falsified an income tax return required to be 
                disclosed under section 102A, 102B, or 102C'' before 
                the period;
                    (C) in subsection (c), by inserting ``or failing to 
                file or falsifying an income tax return required to be 
                disclosed under section 102A, 102B, or 102C'' before 
                the period; and
                    (D) in subsection (d)(1)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by inserting ``or files an income tax 
                        return required to be disclosed under section 
                        102A, 102B, or 102C'' after ``title''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or 
                        such income tax return, as applicable,'' after 
                        ``report''.
    (b) Authority To Disclose Information.--
            (1) In general.--Section 6103(l) of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(23) Disclosure of return information of presidents, vice 
        presidents, members of congress, and certain candidates.--
                    ``(A) Disclosure of returns of presidents, vice 
                presidents, and members of congress.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary shall, 
                        upon written request from the Director of the 
                        Office of Public Integrity pursuant to section 
                        102A(b)(1)(B) of the Ethics in Government Act 
                        of 1978, provide to officers and employees of 
                        the Office of Public Integrity a copy of any 
                        income tax return of any President, Vice 
                        President, or Member of Congress that is 
                        required to be filed under section 102A(b)(1) 
                        of such Act.
                            ``(ii) Disclosure to public.--The Director 
                        of the Office of Public Integrity may disclose 
                        to the public any income tax return of any 
                        President, Vice President, and Member of 
                        Congress that is required to be filed with the 
                        Director of the Office of Public Integrity 
                        pursuant to section 102A(b)(1) of the Ethics in 
                        Government Act of 1978.
                    ``(B) Disclosure of returns of certain candidates 
                for president, vice president, and members of 
                congress.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary shall, 
                        upon written request from the Chairman of the 
                        Federal Election Commission pursuant to section 
                        102A(b)(2)(B) of the Ethics in Government Act 
                        of 1978, provide to officers and employees of 
                        the Federal Election Commission copies of the 
                        applicable returns of any covered candidate (as 
                        defined in section 102A(a) of such Act).
                            ``(ii) Disclosure to public.--The Federal 
                        Election Commission may disclose to the public 
                        any applicable return of any covered candidate 
                        (as defined in section 102A(a) of such Act) 
                        that is required to be filed with the 
                        Commission pursuant to section 102A(b)(2) of 
                        the Ethics in Government Act.
                            ``(iii) Applicable returns.--For purposes 
                        of this paragraph, the term `applicable 
                        returns' means--
                                    ``(I) with respect to any covered 
                                candidate for the office of President 
                                or Vice President, income tax returns 
                                for the 8 most recent taxable years and 
                                every year the individual was in 
                                Federal elected office for which a 
                                return has been filed as of the date of 
                                the nomination; and
                                    ``(II) with respect to any covered 
                                candidate for the office of Member of 
                                Congress, income tax returns for the 2 
                                most recent taxable years and every 
                                year the individual was in Federal 
                                elected office for which a return has 
                                been filed as of the date of the 
                                nomination.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 6103(p)(4) of such 
        Code, in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) and in 
        subparagraph (F)(ii), is amended by striking ``or (22)'' and 
        inserting ``(22), or (23)'' each place it appears.

SEC. 603. TRANSPARENCY RELATING TO CANDIDATES FOR FEDERAL OFFICE AND 
              MEMBERS OF CONGRESS.

    (a) In General.--Title I of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) is amended by inserting after section 102A, as added by 
section 602 of this Act, the following:

``SEC. 102B. DISCLOSURE RELATING TO COVERED ENTITIES ASSOCIATED WITH 
              MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND COVERED CANDIDATES.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
            ``(1) the term `close family member', with respect to a 
        reporting individual, includes--
                    ``(A) a parent of the reporting individual;
                    ``(B) a spouse of the reporting individual; and
                    ``(C) an adult child of the reporting individual;
            ``(2) the term `covered candidate' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 102A(a);
            ``(3) the term `covered entity' means a corporation, 
        company, firm, partnership, or other business enterprise;
            ``(4) the term `gross receipts' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 993(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
            ``(5) the term `income tax return' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 102A(a);
            ``(6) the term `Member of Congress' means--
                    ``(A) a Member of Congress required to file a 
                report under subsection (a) or (d) of section 101; and
                    ``(B) an individual who occupies the office of 
                Member of Congress and is required to file a report 
                under section 101(e); and
            ``(7) the term `reporting individual' means--
                    ``(A) a covered candidate; or
                    ``(B) a Member of Congress.
    ``(b) Disclosure.--
            ``(1) Members of congress.--
                    ``(A) In general.--On and after the date that is 
                180 days after the date on which the Director of the 
                Office of Public Integrity, in consultation with the 
                Federal Election Commission, promulgates regulations 
                under paragraph (3), in addition to the information 
                described in subsections (a) and (b) of section 102, a 
                Member of Congress shall include in each report 
                required to be filed under this title, with respect to 
                the 2 most recent taxable years and every year the 
                Member of Congress was in Federal elected office for 
                which an income tax return has been filed with the 
                Internal Revenue Service as of the date on which the 
                report is filed--
                            ``(i) a statement of the name of any 
                        covered entity--
                                    ``(I) in which the Member of 
                                Congress has a significant direct or 
                                indirect ownership interest; and
                                    ``(II) that has gross receipts that 
                                meet or exceed the threshold value 
                                established by regulations promulgated 
                                pursuant to paragraph (3);
                            ``(ii) a copy of any income tax return 
                        filed by a covered entity described in clause 
                        (i) for any taxable year ending with or within 
                        such years; and
                            ``(iii) in the case of a covered entity 
                        described in clause (i) that is a privately 
                        owned or closely held covered entity, a 
                        statement of--
                                    ``(I) each--
                                            ``(aa) asset of the covered 
                                        entity; and
                                            ``(bb) liability of the 
                                        covered entity;
                                    ``(II) all--
                                            ``(aa) income from sources 
                                        within the United States, as 
                                        described in section 861 of the 
                                        Internal Revenue Code of 1986; 
                                        and
                                            ``(bb) income from sources 
                                        without the United States, as 
                                        described in section 862 of the 
                                        Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
                                    ``(III) the name of each co-owner 
                                or co-member of the covered entity; and
                                    ``(IV) for any co-owner or co-
                                member described in subclause (III) 
                                that is not a natural person, the name 
                                of each natural person that controls, 
                                directly or indirectly, the co-owner or 
                                co-member.
                    ``(B) Close family members.--In addition to the 
                information described in subparagraph (A), the Director 
                of the Office of Public Integrity may, on a case-by-
                case basis and in accordance with the regulations 
                promulgated under paragraph (3), require that a Member 
                of Congress include in each report required to be filed 
                under this title by the Member of Congress the 
                information described in subparagraph (A) with respect 
                to any covered entity--
                            ``(i) in which a close family member of the 
                        Member of Congress has a significant direct or 
                        indirect ownership interest; and
                            ``(ii) that has gross receipts that meet or 
                        exceed the threshold value established by 
                        regulations promulgated pursuant to paragraph 
                        (3).
                    ``(C) Failure to disclose.--If an income tax return 
                is not disclosed under subparagraph (A)(ii), the 
                Director of the Office of Public Integrity shall submit 
                to the Secretary of the Treasury a request that the 
                Secretary of the Treasury provide the Director of the 
                Office of Public Integrity with a copy of the income 
                tax return.
                    ``(D) Publicly available.--All information, 
                including any income tax return, described in this 
                subsection required to be included in a report under 
                this title shall be filed with the Director of the 
                Office of Public Integrity and made publicly available 
                in the same manner as the information described in 
                subsections (a) and (b) of section 102.
                    ``(E) Redaction of certain information.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Before making any 
                        information, including any income tax return, 
                        described in this paragraph required to be 
                        included in a report under this title available 
                        to the public, the Director of the Office of 
                        Public Integrity shall redact--
                                    ``(I) if the information contained 
                                in the report contains a trade secret 
                                the disclosure of which is likely to 
                                cause substantial harm to the 
                                competitive position of the covered 
                                entity to which the information 
                                contained in the report pertains, the 
                                information relating to the trade 
                                secret; and
                                    ``(II) such information as the 
                                Director of the Office of Public 
                                Integrity, in consultation with the 
                                Secretary of the Treasury, determines 
                                appropriate.
                            ``(ii) Request for redaction.--A Member of 
                        Congress submitting a report under this title 
                        that contains information, including any income 
                        tax return, described in this paragraph that 
                        contains a trade secret described in clause 
                        (i)(I) may request that the Director of the 
                        Office of Public Integrity redact the 
                        information relating to the trade secret.
            ``(2) Candidates.--
                    ``(A) In general.--On and after the date that is 
                180 days after the date on which the Director of the 
                Office of Public Integrity, in consultation with the 
                Federal Election Commission, promulgates regulations 
                under paragraph (3), not later than 15 days after the 
                date on which a covered candidate is nominated, the 
                covered candidate shall amend the report filed by the 
                covered candidate under section 101(c) with the Federal 
                Election Commission to include, with respect to the 
                years described in subparagraph (B)--
                            ``(i) a statement of the name of any 
                        covered entity--
                                    ``(I) in which the covered 
                                candidate has a significant direct or 
                                indirect ownership interest; and
                                    ``(II) that has gross receipts that 
                                meet or exceed the threshold value 
                                established by regulations promulgated 
                                pursuant to paragraph (3);
                            ``(ii) a copy of any income tax return 
                        filed by a covered entity described in clause 
                        (i) for any taxable year ending with or within 
                        such years; and
                            ``(iii) in the case of a covered entity 
                        described in clause (i) that is a privately 
                        owned or closely held covered entity, a 
                        statement of--
                                    ``(I) each--
                                            ``(aa) asset of the covered 
                                        entity; and
                                            ``(bb) liability of the 
                                        covered entity;
                                    ``(II) all--
                                            ``(aa) income from sources 
                                        within the United States, as 
                                        described in section 861 of the 
                                        Internal Revenue Code of 1986; 
                                        and
                                            ``(bb) income from sources 
                                        without the United States, as 
                                        described in section 862 of the 
                                        Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
                                    ``(III) the name of each co-owner 
                                or co-member of the covered entity; and
                                    ``(IV) for any co-owner or co-
                                member described in subclause (III) 
                                that is not a natural person, the name 
                                of each natural person that controls, 
                                directly or indirectly, the co-owner or 
                                co-member.
                    ``(B) Applicable years.--The years described in 
                this subparagraph are as follows:
                            ``(i) In the case of a report filed under 
                        section 101(c) by a covered candidate for the 
                        office of President or Vice President, the 8 
                        years preceding the date on which the report is 
                        filed.
                            ``(ii) In the case of a report filed under 
                        section 101(c) by a covered candidate for the 
                        office of Member of Congress, the 2 years 
                        preceding the date on which the report is 
                        filed.
                    ``(C) Close family members.--In addition to the 
                information described in subparagraph (A), the Federal 
                Election Commission may, on a case-by-case basis and in 
                accordance with the regulations promulgated under 
                paragraph (3), require that a covered candidate include 
                in each report required to be filed under section 
                101(c) by the covered candidate the information 
                described in subparagraph (A) with respect to any 
                covered entity--
                            ``(i) in which a close family member of the 
                        covered candidate has a significant direct or 
                        indirect ownership interest; and
                            ``(ii) that has gross receipts that meet or 
                        exceed the threshold value established by 
                        regulations promulgated pursuant to paragraph 
                        (3).
                    ``(D) Failure to disclose.--If an income tax return 
                is not disclosed under subparagraph (A)(ii), the 
                Chairman of the Federal Election Commission shall 
                submit to the Secretary of the Treasury a request that 
                the Secretary of the Treasury provide the Federal 
                Election Commission with a copy of the income tax 
                return.
                    ``(E) Publicly available.--All information, 
                including any income tax return, described in this 
                subsection required to be included in a report under 
                section 101(c) shall be filed with the Federal Election 
                Commission and made publicly available in the same 
                manner as the information described in subsections (a) 
                and (b) of section 102.
                    ``(F) Redaction of certain information.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Before making any 
                        information, including any income tax return, 
                        described in this paragraph required to be 
                        included in a report under section 101(c) 
                        available to the public, the Federal Election 
                        Commission shall redact--
                                    ``(I) if the information contained 
                                in the report contains a trade secret 
                                the disclosure of which is likely to 
                                cause substantial harm to the 
                                competitive position of the covered 
                                entity to which the information 
                                contained in the report pertains, the 
                                information relating to the trade 
                                secret; and
                                    ``(II) such information as the 
                                Federal Election Commission, in 
                                consultation with the Secretary of the 
                                Treasury, determines appropriate.
                            ``(ii) Request for redaction.--A covered 
                        candidate submitting a report under section 
                        101(c) that contains information, including any 
                        income tax return, described in this paragraph 
                        that contains a trade secret described in 
                        clause (i)(I) may request that the Federal 
                        Election Commission redact the information 
                        relating to the trade secret.
            ``(3) Regulations.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
        of enactment of this section, the Director of the Office of 
        Public Integrity shall, in consultation with the Federal 
        Elections Commission, promulgate regulations to--
                    ``(A) establish each threshold value for purposes 
                of--
                            ``(i) subparagraphs (A)(i)(II) and (B)(ii) 
                        of paragraph (1); and
                            ``(ii) subparagraphs (A)(i)(II) and (C)(ii) 
                        of paragraph (2);
                    ``(B) define the term `significant direct or 
                indirect interest';
                    ``(C) ensure that information described in this 
                subsection that is required to be contained in a report 
                filed under this title does not--
                            ``(i) disclose any trade secret that is 
                        likely to cause substantial harm to the 
                        competitive position of the covered entity to 
                        which it pertains; or
                            ``(ii) violate the privacy of any 
                        individual who is not the reporting individual 
                        who files the report; and
                    ``(D) prescribe appropriate circumstances in which 
                to require a Member of Congress or covered candidate to 
                provide information under paragraph (1)(B) or (2)(C).

``SEC. 102C. DISCLOSURE RELATING TO COVERED ORGANIZATIONS ASSOCIATED 
              WITH COVERED CANDIDATES.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
            ``(1) the term `covered candidate' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 102A(a);
            ``(2) the term `covered organization' means an organization 
        required to--
                    ``(A) file an income tax return under section 6033 
                of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
                    ``(B) include information under subsection (e) 
                thereof;
            ``(3) the term `income tax return' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 102A(a); and
            ``(4) the term `key employee' means--
                    ``(A) an individual who is 1 of the 5 individuals 
                receiving the highest amount of compensation paid by a 
                covered organization; or
                    ``(B) an individual receiving compensation paid by 
                a covered organization in an amount that exceeds 
                $100,000.
    ``(b) Disclosure.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 15 days after the date on 
        which a covered candidate is nominated, the covered candidate 
        shall amend the report filed by the covered candidate under 
        section 101(c) with the Federal Election Commission to 
        include--
                    ``(A) a statement identifying each covered 
                organization of which the covered candidate has been an 
                officer, director, trustee, board member, or key 
                employee during the 2 years preceding the date on which 
                the report is filed; and
                    ``(B) for each covered organization identified 
                under subparagraph (A), a copy of each income tax 
                return required to be filed by the covered organization 
                under section 6033 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
                for each taxable year ending with or within any taxable 
                years described in subparagraph (A) in which the 
                covered candidate was an officer, director, trustee, 
                board member, or key employee of the covered 
                organization.
            ``(2) Failure to disclose.--If an income tax return is not 
        disclosed under paragraph (1)(B), the Federal Election 
        Commission shall submit to the Secretary of the Treasury a 
        request that the Secretary of the Treasury provide the Federal 
        Election Commission with the income tax return.
            ``(3) Publicly available.--
                    ``(A) In general.--All information, including any 
                income tax return, described in this subsection 
                required to be included in a report under section 
                101(c) shall be filed with the Federal Election 
                Commission and made publicly available in the same 
                manner as the information described in section 102(b).
                    ``(B) Income tax returns.--The Director of the 
                Office of Public Integrity shall make a copy of each 
                income tax return described in paragraph (1)(B) 
                included in a report filed under section 101(c) 
                publicly available on the website described in section 
                402(b)(19) until--
                            ``(i) the date on which the reporting 
                        individual ceases to be a covered candidate; or
                            ``(ii) if the reporting individual is 
                        elected to the office for which the reporting 
                        individual was a covered candidate, the date on 
                        which the reporting individual ceases to serve 
                        in the office for which the reporting 
                        individual was a covered candidate.
            ``(4) Redaction.--Before making any information, including 
        any income tax return, described in this subsection required to 
        be included in a report under section 101(c) available to the 
        public, the Federal Election Commission shall redact such 
        information as the Federal Election Commission, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Director of the 
        Office of Public Integrity, determines appropriate.''.
    (b) Authority To Disclose Information.--Paragraph (23) of section 
6103(l) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as added by section 602, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(C) Disclosure of returns of covered entities 
                associated with members of congress and covered 
                candidates.--
                            ``(i) In general.--
                                    ``(I) Covered entities associated 
                                with members of congress.--The 
                                Secretary shall, upon written request 
                                from the Director of the Office of 
                                Public Integrity pursuant to section 
                                102B(b)(1)(C) of the Ethics in 
                                Government Act of 1978 provide to 
                                officers and employees of the Office of 
                                Public Integrity a copy of any income 
                                tax return of a covered entity (as 
                                defined in section 102B(a) of such Act) 
                                that relates to a year described in 
                                section 102B(b)(1)(A) of such Act and 
                                is required to be filed under section 
                                102B(b) of such Act.
                                    ``(II) Covered entities associated 
                                with covered candidates.--The Secretary 
                                shall, upon written request from the 
                                Chairman of the Federal Election 
                                Commission pursuant to section 
                                102B(b)(2)(D) of the Ethics in 
                                Government Act of 1978 provide to 
                                officers and employees of the Federal 
                                Election Commission a copy of any 
                                income tax return of a covered entity 
                                (as defined in section 102B(a) of such 
                                Act) that relates to a year described 
                                in section 102B(b)(2)(B) of such Act 
                                and is required to be filed under 
                                section 102B(b) of such Act.
                            ``(ii) Disclosure to public.--The Director 
                        of the Office of Public Integrity and the 
                        Chairman of the Federal Election Commission may 
                        disclose to the public the income tax return of 
                        any covered entity (as so defined) that is 
                        required to be filed pursuant to section 
                        102B(b) of the Ethics in Government Act of 
                        1978.
                    ``(D) Disclosure of returns of covered 
                organizations associated with covered candidates.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary shall, 
                        upon written request from the Chairman of the 
                        Federal Election Commission pursuant to section 
                        102C(b)(2) of the Ethics in Government Act of 
                        1978, provide to officers and employees of the 
                        Federal Election Commission copies of any 
                        income tax return required to be filed under 
                        section 6033 by an organization described in 
                        clause (iii) for any year taxable year ending 
                        with or within the period described in section 
                        102C(b)(1)(B) of such Act.
                            ``(ii) Disclosure to public.--The Federal 
                        Election Commission may disclose to the public 
                        income tax returns of any organization 
                        described in clause (iii) that is required to 
                        be filed with the Commission pursuant to 
                        section 102C(b) of the Ethics in Government Act 
                        of 1978.
                            ``(iii) Organization described.--An 
                        organization is described in this clause if 
                        such organization is a covered organization (as 
                        defined in section 102C(a) of the Ethics in 
                        Government Act of 1978) of which a person who 
                        has been nominated as a covered candidate (as 
                        defined in section 102A(a) of such Act) has 
                        been an officer, director, trustee, board 
                        member, or key employee (as defined in section 
                        102C(a) of such Act) during the period 
                        described in section 102C(b)(1)(A) of such 
                        Act.''.
    (c) Provision of Financial Disclosures to the Federal Election 
Commission.--Section 103(j) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following: 
        ``In the case of a report filed under this title with the Clerk 
        of the House of Representatives by a covered candidate, as 
        defined in section 102A(a), a copy of the report shall also be 
        sent by the Clerk to the Federal Election Commission within the 
        7-day period beginning on the day the report is filed.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following: 
        ``In the case of a report filed under this title with the 
        Secretary of the Senate by a covered candidate, as defined in 
        section 102A(a), a copy of the report shall also be sent by the 
        Secretary to the Federal Election Commission within the 7-day 
        period beginning on the day the report is filed.''.

      Subtitle B--Think Tank, Nonprofit, and Advocate Transparency

SEC. 611. AMENDMENTS TO THE LOBBYING DISCLOSURE ACT OF 1995.

    (a) Enforcement Report.--Section 6(b) of the Lobbying Disclosure 
Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1605(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Reports.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), 
                after the end of each semiannual period beginning on 
                January 1 and July 1, the Attorney General, in 
                consultation with the Director of the Office of Public 
                Integrity, shall submit to each congressional committee 
                referred to in paragraph (2) a report that includes, 
                for that semiannual period a statement of--
                            ``(i) the aggregate number of enforcement 
                        actions taken by the Department of Justice 
                        under this Act; and
                            ``(ii) by case, any sentence or fine 
                        imposed in each such enforcement action.
                    ``(B) Information not already a matter of public 
                record.--A report submitted under subparagraph (A) may 
                not include the name of any individual, or any 
                personally identifiable information, that is not 
                already a matter of public record, as of the date on 
                which the report is submitted.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``paragraph (1)'' and inserting 
                ``paragraph (1)(A)''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``and the Committee on Oversight 
                and Government Reform'' after ``Committee on the 
                Judiciary''.
    (b) Reports by Think Tank, Nonprofit, and Advocacy Groups.--The 
Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating sections 6 through 28 (2 U.S.C. 1605 
        et seq.), as amended by title II of this Act, as sections 7 
        through 29, respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after section 5 (2 U.S.C. 1604) the 
        following:

``SEC. 6. REPORTS BY THINK TANK, NONPROFIT, AND ADVOCACY GROUPS.

    ``(a) Definition.--In this section--
            ``(1) the term `covered organization' means any 
        organization--
                    ``(A) that is described in paragraph (3), (4), or 
                (6) of section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
                1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such 
                Code; and
                    ``(B) that--
                            ``(i) engages in lobbying activities; or
                            ``(ii) is a client; and
            ``(2) the term `covered product' means any communication 
        that is--
                    ``(A) made to a covered legislative branch official 
                or covered executive branch official in the course of 
                any lobbying contact by, or on behalf of, a covered 
                organization;
                    ``(B) testimony--
                            ``(i) given by, or on behalf of, a covered 
                        organization before a committee, subcommittee, 
                        or task force of Congress; or
                            ``(ii) submitted by, or on behalf of, a 
                        covered organization for inclusion in the 
                        public record of a hearing conducted by such 
                        committee, subcommittee, or task force; or
                    ``(C) made by, or on behalf of, a covered 
                organization in response to a notice in the Federal 
                Register, Commerce Business Daily, or other similar 
                publication soliciting communications from the public 
                and directed to the agency official specifically 
                designated in the notice to receive such 
                communications.
    ``(b) Reports.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this section, and not later than January 30th of each year 
thereafter, or on the first business day after January 30th if January 
30th is not a business day, each covered organization shall submit to 
the Director of the Office of Public Integrity a report for the 
preceding calendar year that includes, with respect to each covered 
product made or given by, or on behalf of, the covered organization 
during that year--
            ``(1) the name of each donor who donated any amount that 
        was--
                    ``(A) used to pay the cost of making or giving the 
                covered product; and
                    ``(B) donated with the intention of supporting any 
                lobbying activity by the covered organization; and
            ``(2) a statement of whether, before the date on which the 
        covered product was made or given, any existing or potential 
        donor to the covered organization previewed, commented on, 
        reviewed, or edited the covered product.
    ``(c) Disclosure.--The information required to be submitted with 
respect to a covered product under subsection (b)(2) shall be included 
on or with that covered product.''.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--Section 25(b) of the 
Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995, as so redesignated, is amended, in the 
matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``9, 10, 11, and 12'' and 
inserting ``10, 11, 12, and 13''.

SEC. 612. AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986.

    (a) Inclusion of Lobbying Information on Annual Returns of 
Charitable Organizations.--Section 6033(b)(5) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' before ``the names''; and
            (2) by inserting ``and, if it engages in lobbying 
        activities (as defined in section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure 
        Act of 1995) or is a client (as defined in such section), a 
        statement of whether any such contribution was intended to 
        support any lobbying activity (as so defined) or lobbying 
        contact (as defined in such section) by or on behalf of it, 
        and, if so, a description of such lobbying activity or lobbying 
        contact'' after ``substantial contributors,''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to returns required to be filed for taxable years ending on or 
after the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

               Subtitle C--Strengthening FOIA Enforcement

SEC. 621. STRENGTHENING FOIA ENFORCEMENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 552 of title 5, United States Code 
(commonly known as the ``Freedom of Information Act''), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B), in the first 
                        sentence--
                                    (I) by striking ``and to order'' 
                                and inserting ``, to order''; and
                                    (II) by inserting before the period 
                                at the end the following: ``, to order 
                                an agency to make available for public 
                                inspection, including by posting 
                                electronically, the records described 
                                in paragraph (2), to make available to 
                                the public on the website of the agency 
                                the records described in subsection 
                                (p), and to award other appropriate 
                                equitable relief''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (F)(i), in the first 
                        sentence--
                                    (I) by inserting ``, orders an 
                                agency to make available for public 
                                inspection, including by posting 
                                electronically, the records described 
                                in paragraph (2), or orders an agency 
                                to make available to the public on the 
                                website of the agency the records 
                                described in subsection (p),'' after 
                                ``improperly withheld from the 
                                complainant''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``or 
                                unavailability of records'' after ``the 
                                withholding'' each place that term 
                                appears; and
                    (B) in paragraph (6), by adding at the end the 
                following:
            ``(G)(i) Notwithstanding any determination made under 
        subparagraph (A)(i), or any appeal to such a determination 
        under subparagraph (A)(ii), the Office of Government 
        Information Services established under subsection (h) shall 
        require an agency to comply with a request for records made 
        under paragraph (1), (2), or (3), or any other requirement of 
        this subsection, if the Office determines that the agency has 
        not reasonably and impartially complied with the requirements 
        of this subsection.
            ``(ii) If the Office makes a determination under clause (i) 
        that an agency has not reasonably or impartially complied with 
        a request for records made under paragraph (1), (2), or (3), or 
        any other requirement of this subsection, and requires the 
        agency to comply with that request or requirement, the Office 
        shall make available to the public on the website of the Office 
        that determination and any response and regular update by the 
        agency of compliance by the agency.
            ``(iii) Nothing in clause (i) or (ii) shall be construed to 
        prevent or restrict the ability of an individual to bring a 
        suit to compel the disclosure of records under this section.'';
            (2) in subsection (d), by inserting ``any Member of'' 
        before ``Congress'';
            (3) in subsection (h)(3)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(A)'' before ``The Office''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(B) The Director of the Office of Public Integrity, or a 
        designee of the Director, may submit a non-binding 
        recommendation to the Office of Government Information Services 
        regarding the disclosure of information under this section 
        during a mediation service provided under subparagraph (A).''; 
        and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(n) Each agency shall maintain and make available through a 
single website, which may be the website described in subsection (m) 
and shall be managed by the Office of Public Integrity, an agency 
record database that--
            ``(1) contains a log of the status of each open request for 
        records from the agency under this section; and
            ``(2) makes each request for records under this section 
        with which the agency complies available in a format that is 
        searchable, sortable, machine readable, and downloadable not 
        later than 60 days after the date on which the request is first 
        received by the agency.''.

SEC. 622. EXEMPTIONS FROM DISCLOSURE.

    (a) In General.--Section 552(b) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)(B), by inserting ``with an explanation 
        for the exemption'' after ``specifically cites to this 
        paragraph'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting before the semicolon at 
        the end the following: ``, only if disclosure of the commercial 
        or financial information is likely to cause substantial harm to 
        the competitive position of the person from whom the 
        information was obtained'';
            (3) in paragraph (5)--
                    (A) by striking ``provided that the deliberative 
                process privilege shall not apply to records created 25 
                years or more before the date on which the records were 
                requested'' and inserting ``and excluding--
            ``(A) any opinion that is a controlling interpretation of 
        law;
            ``(B) any final report or memorandum created by an entity 
        other than the agency, including other Governmental entities, 
        at the request of the agency and used to make a final policy 
        decision;
            ``(C) any guidance document used by the agency to respond 
        to the public; and
            ``(D) any record created not less than 25 years before the 
        date on which the records were requested'';
            (4) in paragraph (6), by striking ``similar files'' and 
        inserting ``personal information, such as personal contact 
        information or personal financial information,'';
            (5) in paragraph (7)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (E)--
                            (i) by inserting a comma before ``if 
                        such''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``and the record or 
                        information was created less than 25 years 
                        before the date on which the records were 
                        requested'' after ``circumvention of the law''; 
                        and
                    (B) by adding ``or'' at the end;
            (6) by striking paragraph (8);
            (7) by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (8); and
            (8) in the flush text following paragraph (8), as so 
        redesignated--
                    (A) by inserting before ``Any reasonably segregable 
                portion'' the following: ``An agency may not withhold 
                information under this subsection unless the agency 
                reasonably foresees that disclosure would cause 
                specific identifiable harm to an interest protected by 
                an exemption, or if disclosure is prohibited by law.''; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting before ``If technically 
                feasible,'' the following: ``For each record withheld 
                in whole or in part under paragraph (3), the agency 
                shall identify the statute that exempts the record from 
                disclosure.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Energy policy and conservation act.--Section 
        254(a)(2)(A) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
        U.S.C. 6274(a)(2)(A)) is amended by striking ``(b)(9)'' and 
        inserting ``(b)(8)''.
            (2) Federal credit union act.--Section 216(j)(3)(A) of the 
        Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1790d(j)(3)(A)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``; or'' and all that follows and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (B) by striking ``excising'' and all that follows 
                through ``any portion'' and inserting ``excising any 
                portion''.
            (3) Securities exchange act of 1934.--Section 24 of the 
        Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78x) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d), by striking ``(g)'' and 
                inserting ``(f)'';
                    (B) by striking subsection (e); and
                    (C) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as 
                subsections (e) and (f), respectively.

SEC. 623. PUBLIC INTEREST BALANCING TEST.

    Section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the 
``Freedom of Information Act''), as amended by this subtitle, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``This section'' and inserting ``Subject to 
        subsection (o), this section''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(o)(1) Notwithstanding the applicability of an exemption from 
disclosure under subsection (b), an agency shall make available a 
record or any segregable portion of a record if the public interest in 
disclosure clearly outweighs the interest protected by the exemption.
    ``(2) In evaluating the public interest in disclosing a record or a 
portion of a record under paragraph (1), an agency and courts shall 
consider--
            ``(A) the extent to which access to the record will further 
        public understanding of the operations or decision making of an 
        agency or Government official;
            ``(B) the extent to which the age of the record diminishes 
        the rationale for withholding the record;
            ``(C) any reasonable suspicion of governmental wrongdoing;
            ``(D) the importance of the record to the public in order 
        for the public to make informed decisions with respect to the 
        electoral and democratic process; and
            ``(E) any other factors that the agency or court determines 
        necessary.''.

SEC. 624. AFFIRMATIVE DISCLOSURE OF AGENCY RECORDS ON WEBSITE.

    Section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the 
``Freedom of Information Act''), as amended by this subtitle, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(p)(1) Each agency shall make available to the public on the 
website of the agency--
            ``(A) information relating to each advisory committee (as 
        defined in section 3 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 
        U.S.C. App.)) of the agency, including--
                    ``(i) the charter of the advisory committee and a 
                description of the activities of the advisory 
                committee;
                    ``(ii) the name and basic biography of each member 
                of the advisory committee, and any conflict of 
                interest, ethics waiver, or recusal information 
                relating to each member;
                    ``(iii) the meeting agendas, minutes, transcripts, 
                and any recordings of the advisory committee;
                    ``(iv) any upcoming events of the advisory 
                committee;
                    ``(v) timelines of any ongoing advisory committee 
                work; and
                    ``(vi) a full list of nominated members of the 
                advisory committee and the final selected membership of 
                the advisory committee;
            ``(B) information relating to Federal contracts of the 
        agency, including--
                    ``(i) a copy of each contract, task, and delivery 
                order;
                    ``(ii) information on past performance of 
                contractors, if available; and
                    ``(iii) except for information that is exempt from 
                disclosure under subsection (b)(4), all correspondence 
                and documents related to the provision of services to 
                the Federal Government by contractors earning--
                            ``(I) $10,000,000 during a 1-year period 
                        under a Federal contract or license; or
                            ``(II) more than 20 percent of total 
                        revenue of the contractor from Federal sources;
            ``(C) ethics documents maintained by the Office of Public 
        Integrity, including--
                    ``(i) final submissions of ethics paperwork for an 
                individual in a position on any level of the Executive 
                Schedule under subchapter II of chapter 53 of this 
                title;
                    ``(ii) waivers; and
                    ``(iii) any document granting a recusal on a 
                specific issue for an individual in a position on any 
                level of the Executive Schedule under subchapter II of 
                chapter 53 of this title;
            ``(D) basic employee organizational charts and office 
        contact information, including--
                    ``(i) charts that minimally include the names, job 
                titles, and salaries of all noncareer appointees and 
                career appointees, as defined in section 3132 of this 
                title; and
                    ``(ii) front office contact information for every 
                office within the agency;
            ``(E) each communication sent to Congress or to a committee 
        of Congress, including--
                    ``(i) congressional testimony;
                    ``(ii) each unclassified report submitted to 
                Congress, as required by statute; and
                    ``(iii) each response to questions for 
                congressional hearing records, provided that the 
                response does not include individual casework or 
                constituent information; and
            ``(F) human resources data of the agency, in the aggregate, 
        including--
                    ``(i) the number of involuntary transfers, hires, 
                and voluntary and involuntary departures each quarter; 
                and
                    ``(ii) information on the racial, ethnic, and 
                gender diversity with respect to hires, departures, and 
                involuntary transfers.
    ``(2) If an agency is unable to maintain a website described in 
paragraph (1) due to resource constraints, the agency shall submit the 
information required to be made available under paragraph (1) to the 
Director of the Office of Public Integrity, who shall make the 
information available on a website managed by the Office of Public 
Integrity, such as the website described in subsection (m).''.

SEC. 625. APPLICABILITY.

    This subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle shall apply 
on and after the date of enactment of this Act.

              Subtitle D--Federal Contractor Transparency

SEC. 631. EXPANDING APPLICABILITY OF THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT TO 
              FEDERAL CONTRACTORS.

    (a) Definition of Agency.--In this section, the term ``agency'' has 
the meaning given the term in section 552(f) of title 5, United States 
Code.
    (b) Applicability of FOIA.--A record relating to a Federal 
contractor, including a record relating to a non-Federal prison, 
correctional, or detention facility, produced during fulfillment of the 
Federal contract with an agency with funds provided under the contract 
shall be--
            (1) considered a record for purposes of section 552(f)(2) 
        of title 5, United States Code, whether in the possession of 
        the Federal contractor or an agency; and
            (2) subject to section 552 of title 5, United States Code 
        (commonly known as the ``Freedom of Information Act''), to the 
        same extent as if the record was maintained by an agency.
    (c) Withholding of Information.--An agency may not withhold 
information that would otherwise be required to be disclosed under 
subsection (b) unless--
            (1) the agency, based on the independent assessment of the 
        agency, reasonably foresees that disclosure of the information 
        would cause specific identifiable harm to an interest protected 
        by an exemption from disclosure under section 552(b) of title 
        5, United States Code; or
            (2) disclosure of the information is prohibited by law.
    (d) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--An agency may promulgate regulations or 
        guidance to ensure compliance with this section by the agency 
        and Federal contractors.
            (2) Compliance by federal contractors.--
                    (A) In general.--Compliance with this section by an 
                applicable entity shall be included as a material term 
                in any contract, agreement, or renewal of a contract or 
                agreement between the agency and the Federal 
                contractor.
                    (B) Modification of contract or agreement.--Not 
                later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
                Act, an agency shall secure a modification to include 
                compliance with this section by a Federal contractor as 
                a material term in any contract or agreement described 
                under subparagraph (A) that will not otherwise be 
                renegotiated, renewed, or modified before the date that 
                is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit or reduce the scope of State or local open records 
laws.

SEC. 632. PUBLIC DISCLOSURE BY LARGE CONTRACTORS.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``covered contractor'' 
means an entity that earns more than--
            (1) $10,000,000 during a 1-year period under a Federal 
        contract or license; or
            (2) 20 percent of the total revenue of the entity from 
        Federal sources.
    (b) Requirement.--Each covered contractor shall, on an annual 
basis, submit to the Director of the Office of Public Integrity and the 
Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy--
            (1) any audited financial statements of the covered 
        contractor;
            (2) a listing of the salaries of employees of the covered 
        contractor providing services on Federal contracts that are 
        compensated over $100,000 per year;
            (3) a detailed list of all Federal political spending by 
        the covered contractor; and
            (4) the identity of each beneficial owner of the covered 
        contractor, including--
                    (A) name;
                    (B) current residential or business street address; 
                and
                    (C) whether the beneficial owner is a foreign 
                person.
    (c) Penalty.--The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
may--
            (1) in consultation with the Administrator of the Office of 
        Federal Procurement Policy and the Director of the Office of 
        Public Integrity, temporarily or indefinitely disqualify a 
        covered contractor from receiving a Federal contract if the 
        Director of the Office of Management and Budget determines that 
        the covered contractor failed to comply with the requirement 
        under subsection (b); and
            (2) reinstate the ability of a covered contractor described 
        in paragraph (1) to receive a Federal contract.

                 Subtitle E--Congressional Transparency

SEC. 641. INCREASED TRANSPARENCY OF COMMITTEE WORK.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Committee'' means--
                    (A) a committee of the House of Representatives;
                    (B) a committee of the Senate; and
                    (C) a subcommittee of a committee described in 
                paragraph (1) or (2);
            (2) the term ``covered hearing'' means a public hearing 
        held by a Committee; and
            (3) the term ``covered markup'' means a public markup held 
        by a Committee.
    (b) Schedule.--At the same time as the schedule is made available 
to members of a Committee, but not later than 7 days before the date of 
a covered hearing or covered markup (unless the Chairman and Ranking 
Minority Member of the Committee agree to waive the 7-day requirement), 
each Committee shall make available on the website of the Committee the 
schedule of covered hearings and covered markups of the Committee.
    (c) Information Required for Markups.--At the same time as the 
materials are made available to members of a Committee, but not later 
than 24 hours before the time of a covered markup (unless the Chairman 
and Ranking Minority Member of the Committee agree to waive the 24-hour 
requirement), the Committee shall make available on the website of the 
Committee any bill or resolution to be considered at the covered markup 
and any amendments to such a bill or resolution filed with the 
Committee.
    (d) Additional Required Information.--Not later than 24 hours after 
holding a covered hearing or a covered markup, a Committee shall make 
available on the website of the Committee--
            (1) a description of the topic of the covered hearing or 
        covered markup;
            (2) any legislation related to the covered hearing or 
        covered markup;
            (3) the written testimony of any witness;
            (4) any documents or materials entered into the record;
            (5) any written opening statements of the Chairman or 
        Ranking Minority Member of the Committee; and
            (6) audio and video recordings of the covered hearing or 
        covered markup.
    (e) Transcripts.--Not later than 45 days after holding a covered 
hearing or covered markup, a Committee shall make available on the 
website of the Committee transcripts of the covered hearing or covered 
markup.
    (f) Reported Measures.--Not later than 24 hours after a covered 
markup during which a Committee orders a bill or resolution to be 
reported, the Committee shall post on the website of the Committee--
            (1) each amendment to the bill or resolution that was 
        agreed to, except for technical and conforming changes 
        authorized by the Committee; and
            (2) a record of each vote taken on the bill or resolution 
        or an amendment thereto.
    (g) Comparative Print.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 45 days after a Committee 
        reports a bill or joint resolution proposing to repeal or amend 
        a statute or part thereof, the Committee shall include in its 
        report or in an accompanying document and make available on the 
        website of the Committee--
                    (A) the entire text of each section of a statute 
                that is proposed to be repealed or amended; and
                    (B) a comparative print of each amendment to a 
                section of a statute that the bill or joint resolution 
                proposes to make, showing by appropriate typographical 
                devices the omissions and insertions proposed.
            (2) Committee amendments.--If a Committee reports a bill or 
        joint resolution proposing to repeal or amend a statute or part 
        thereof with a recommendation that the bill or joint resolution 
        be amended, the comparative print required by paragraph (1) 
        shall reflect the changes in existing law proposed to be made 
        by the bill or joint resolution as proposed to be amended.
            (3) Availability.--Each Committee shall make reasonable 
        efforts to make a comparative print required by paragraph (1) 
        available to the members of the Committee and to the public as 
        early as practicable, and before a covered markup, if 
        practical.
    (h) Questions for the Record.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), for 
        each covered hearing or covered markup, a Committee shall make 
        available on the website of the Committee any response to 
        questions for the record of the covered hearing or covered 
        markup that the Committee receives from a testifying witness.
            (2) Protection of certain information.--Upon agreement by 
        the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of a Committee, a 
        response described in paragraph (1) may be withheld from the 
        website of the Committee if it includes individual casework or 
        constituent information or information that the Chairman and 
        Ranking Minority Member determine is confidential information.

SEC. 642. INCREASED TRANSPARENCY OF RECORDED VOTES.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``Member of Congress'' 
means a member of the House of Representatives and a member of the 
Senate.
    (b) Additional Duties of the Clerk of the House of Representatives 
and the Secretary of the Senate.--The Clerk of the House of 
Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate shall make available on 
the website of the Office of the Clerk or of the Secretary, 
respectively, a record of the recorded votes of each Member of Congress 
who is a member of their House of Congress, organized by the name of 
the Member of Congress, in a structured data format, which shall 
include the roll, date, issue, question, result, and title or 
description of the vote.
    (c) Web Link.--Each Member of Congress shall provide a link on the 
website of the Member of Congress to the record of recorded votes of 
the Member of Congress made available by the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives or the Secretary of the Senate, as applicable.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to recorded votes by 
Members of Congress occurring after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 643. INCREASED TRANSPARENCY OF APPROPRIATIONS BILLS.

    (a) Inclusion.--The Clerk of the House of Representatives and the 
Secretary of the Senate shall ensure that each report accompanying any 
appropriations bill reported by the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives or the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate, respectively, includes a formatted spreadsheet showing the 
amounts made available by the bill, in a tabular, digital format that 
shows separate entries for each fiscal year covered by the bill.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (a) shall apply with respect to any 
appropriations bill making funds available for fiscal year 2019 or any 
fiscal year thereafter.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
