<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 115th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2987 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;





                                                       Calendar No. 439
115th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2987

                          [Report No. 115-262]

     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2019 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
   for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
   military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              June 5, 2018

    Mr. Inhofe, from the Committee on Armed Services, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2019 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
   for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
   military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    (a) In General.--This Act may be cited as the ``John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in this or any other Act to the 
``National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019'' shall be 
deemed to be a reference to the ``John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019''.

SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Divisions.--This Act is organized into four divisions as 
follows:
            (1) Division A--Department of Defense Authorizations.
            (2) Division B--Military Construction Authorizations.
            (3) Division C--Department of Energy National Security 
        Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
            (4) Division D--Funding Tables.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.
            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Deployment by the Army of an interim cruise missile defense 
                            capability.
                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Multiyear procurement authority for F/A-18E/F Super Hornet 
                            and EA-18G aircraft program.
Sec. 122. Multiyear procurement authority for E-2D Advanced Hawkeye 
                            (AHE) aircraft program.
Sec. 123. Extension of limitation on use of sole-source shipbuilding 
                            contracts for certain vessels.
Sec. 124. Prohibition on availability of funds for Navy port waterborne 
                            security barriers.
Sec. 125. Multiyear procurement authority for Standard Missile-6.
Sec. 126. Limitation on availability of funds for the Littoral Combat 
                            Ship.
Sec. 127. Nuclear refueling of aircraft carriers.
Sec. 128. Limitation on funding for Amphibious Assault Vehicle Product 
                            Improvement Program.
                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 141. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of E-8 
                            JSTARS aircraft.
Sec. 142. B-52H aircraft system modernization report.
Sec. 143. Repeal of funding restriction for EC-130H Compass Call 
                            Recapitalization Program and review of 
                            program acceleration opportunities.
       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 151. Multiyear procurement authority for C-130J aircraft program.
Sec. 152. Quarterly updates on the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.
Sec. 153. Authority to procure additional polar-class icebreakers.
         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Codification and reauthorization of Defense Research and 
                            Development Rapid Innovation Program.
Sec. 212. Procedures for rapid reaction to emerging technology.
Sec. 213. Activities on identification and development of enhanced 
                            personal protective equipment against blast 
                            injury.
Sec. 214. Human factors modeling and simulation activities.
Sec. 215. Expansion of mission areas supported by mechanisms for 
                            expedited access to technical talent and 
                            expertise at academic institutions.
Sec. 216. Advanced manufacturing activities.
Sec. 217. National security innovation activities.
Sec. 218. Partnership intermediaries for promotion of defense research 
                            and education.
Sec. 219. Limitation on use of funds for Surface Navy Laser Weapon 
                            System.
Sec. 220. Expansion of coordination requirement for support for 
                            national security innovation and 
                            entrepreneurial education.
Sec. 221. Limitation on funding for Amphibious Combat Vehicle 1.2.
Sec. 222. Defense quantum information science and technology research 
                            and development program.
Sec. 223. Joint directed energy test activities.
Sec. 224. Requirement for establishment of arrangements for expedited 
                            access to technical talent and expertise at 
                            academic institutions to support Department 
                            of Defense missions.
Sec. 225. Authority for Joint Directed Energy Transition Office to 
                            conduct research relating to high powered 
                            microwave capabilities.
Sec. 226. Joint artificial intelligence research, development, and 
                            transition activities.
                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 231. Report on comparative capabilities of adversaries in key 
                            technology areas.
Sec. 232. Report on active protection systems for armored combat and 
                            tactical vehicles.
Sec. 233. Next Generation Combat Vehicle.
Sec. 234. Report on the future of the defense research and engineering 
                            enterprise.
Sec. 235. Modification of reports on mechanisms to provide funds to 
                            defense laboratories for research and 
                            development of technologies for military 
                            missions.
Sec. 236. Report on Mobile Protected Firepower and Future Vertical 
                            Lift.
Sec. 237. Improvement of the Air Force supply chain.
Sec. 238. Review of guidance on blast exposure during training.
Sec. 239. List of technologies and manufacturing capabilities critical 
                            to Armed Forces.
Sec. 240. Report on requiring access to digital technical data in 
                            future acquisitions of combat, combat 
                            service, and combat support systems.
Sec. 241. Competitive acquisition strategy for Bradley Fighting Vehicle 
                            transmission replacement.
Sec. 242. Independent assessment of electronic warfare plans and 
                            programs.
                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.
                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Further improvements to energy security and resilience.
Sec. 312. Funding of study and assessment of health implications of 
                            per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances 
                            contamination in drinking water by Agency 
                            for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry.
Sec. 313. Military Mission Sustainment Siting Clearinghouse.
Sec. 314. Operational energy policy.
Sec. 315. Funding treatment of perfluorooctane sulfonic acid and 
                            perfluorooctanoic acid at State-owned and 
                            operated National Guard installations.
                          Subtitle C--Reports

Sec. 321. Reports on readiness.
Sec. 322. Report on cold weather capabilities and readiness of United 
                            States Armed Forces.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 331. Pilot programs on integration of military information support 
                            and civil affairs activities.
Sec. 332. Reporting on future years budgeting by subactivity group.
Sec. 333. Restriction on upgrades to aviation demonstration team 
                            aircraft.
Sec. 334. U.S. Special Operations Command civilian personnel.
Sec. 335. Limitation on availability of funds for service-specific 
                            Defense Readiness Reporting Systems.
Sec. 336. Repurposing and reuse of surplus Army firearms.
Sec. 337. Limitation on availability of funds for establishment of 
                            additional specialized undergraduate pilot 
                            training facility.
Sec. 338. Scope of authority for restoration of land due to mishap.
Sec. 339. Redesignation of the Utah Test and Training Range (UTTR).
                 Subtitle E--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 351. Limitation on modifications to Navy Facilities Sustainment, 
                            Restoration, and Modernization (FSRM) 
                            structure and mechanism.
              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. End strengths for commissioned officers on active duty in 
                            certain grades.
                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the 
                            reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on 
                            active duty for operational support.
              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.
Sec. 422. Limitation on use of funds for personnel in fiscal year 2019 
                            in excess of statutorily specified end 
                            strengths for fiscal year 2018.
                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

              PART I--Officer Personnel Management Reform

Sec. 501. Repeal of codified specification of authorized strengths of 
                            certain commissioned officers on active 
                            duty.
Sec. 502. Annual defense manpower requirements report matters.
Sec. 503. Repeal of requirement for ability to complete 20 years of 
                            service by age 62 as qualification for 
                            original appointment as a regular 
                            commissioned officer.
Sec. 504. Enhancement of availability of constructive service credit 
                            for private sector training or experience 
                            upon original appointment as a commissioned 
                            officer.
Sec. 505. Standardized temporary promotion authority across the 
                            military departments for officers in 
                            certain grades with critical skills.
Sec. 506. Authority for promotion boards to recommend officers of 
                            particular merit be placed higher on a 
                            promotion list.
Sec. 507. Authority for officers to opt out of promotion board 
                            consideration.
Sec. 508. Competitive category matters.
Sec. 509. Promotion zone matters.
Sec. 510. Alternative promotion authority for officers in designated 
                            competitive categories of officers.
Sec. 511. Applicability to additional officer grades of authority for 
                            continuation on active duty of officers in 
                            certain military specialties and career 
                            tracks.
                         PART II--Other Matters

Sec. 516. Matters relating to satisfactory service in grade for 
                            purposes of retirement grade of officers in 
                            highest grade of satisfactory service.
Sec. 517. Reduction in number of years of active naval service required 
                            for permanent appointment as a limited duty 
                            officer.
Sec. 518. Repeal of original appointment qualification requirement for 
                            warrant officers in the regular Army.
Sec. 519. Uniform grade of service of the Chiefs of Chaplains of the 
                            Armed Forces.
Sec. 520. Written justification for appointment of Chiefs of Chaplains 
                            in grade below grade of major general or 
                            rear admiral.
                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 521. Authority to adjust effective date of promotion in the event 
                            of undue delay in extending Federal 
                            recognition of promotion.
Sec. 522. Authority to designate certain reserve officers as not to be 
                            considered for selection for promotion.
Sec. 523. Expansion of personnel subject to authority of the Chief of 
                            the National Guard Bureau in the execution 
                            of functions and missions of the National 
                            Guard Bureau.
Sec. 524. Repeal of prohibition on service on Army Reserve Forces 
                            Policy Committee by members on active duty.
                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

Sec. 531. Assessment of Navy standard workweek and related adjustments.
Sec. 532. Manning of Forward Deployed Naval Forces.
Sec. 533. Navy watchstander records.
Sec. 534. Qualification experience requirements for certain Navy 
                            watchstations.
Sec. 535. Repeal of 15-year statute of limitations on motions or 
                            requests for review of discharge or 
                            dismissal from the Armed Forces.
Sec. 536. Treatment of claims relating to military sexual trauma in 
                            correction of military records and review 
                            of discharge or dismissal proceedings.
                  Subtitle D--Military Justice Matters

Sec. 541. Punitive article on domestic violence under the Uniform Code 
                            of Military Justice.
Sec. 542. Inclusion of strangulation and suffocation in conduct 
                            constituting aggravated assault for 
                            purposes of the Uniform Code of Military 
                            Justice.
Sec. 543. Authorities of Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, 
                            Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault 
                            in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 544. Protective orders against individuals subject to the Uniform 
                            Code of Military Justice.
Sec. 545. Expansion of eligibility for Special Victims' Counsel 
                            services.
Sec. 546. Clarification of expiration of term of appellate military 
                            judges of the United States Court of 
                            Military Commission Review.
Sec. 547. Expansion of policies on expedited transfer of members of the 
                            Armed Forces who are victims of sexual 
                            assault.
Sec. 548. Uniform command action form on disposition of unrestricted 
                            sexual assault cases involving members of 
                            the Armed Forces.
Sec. 549. Inclusion of information on certain collateral conduct of 
                            victims of sexual assault in annual reports 
                            on sexual assault involving members of the 
                            Armed Forces.
   Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Transition, and Resilience

Sec. 551. Consecutive service of service obligation in connection with 
                            payment of tuition for off-duty training or 
                            education for commissioned officers of the 
                            Armed Forces with any other service 
                            obligations.
Sec. 552. Consecutive service of active service obligations for medical 
                            training with other service obligations for 
                            education or training.
Sec. 553. Clarification of application and honorable service 
                            requirements under the Troops-to-Teachers 
                            Program to members of the Retired Reserve.
Sec. 554. Prohibition on use of funds for attendance of enlisted 
                            personnel at senior level and intermediate 
                            level officer professional military 
                            education courses.
Sec. 555. Repeal of program on encouragement of postseparation public 
                            and community service.
Sec. 556. Expansion of authority to assist members in obtaining 
                            professional credentials.
Sec. 557. Enhancement of authorities in connection with Junior Reserve 
                            Officers' Training Corps programs.
Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

             PART I--Defense Dependents' Education Matters

Sec. 561. Continuation of authority to assist local educational 
                            agencies that benefit dependents of members 
                            of the Armed Forces and Department of 
                            Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 562. Impact aid for children with severe disabilities.
Sec. 563. Department of Defense Education Activity policies and 
                            procedures on sexual harassment of students 
                            of Activity schools.
               PART II--Military Family Readiness Matters

Sec. 566. Improvement of authority to conduct family support programs 
                            for immediate family members of the Armed 
                            Forces assigned to special operations 
                            forces.
Sec. 567. Expansion of period of availability of Military OneSource 
                            program for retired and discharged members 
                            of the Armed Forces and their immediate 
                            families.
Sec. 568. Expansion of authority for noncompetitive appointments of 
                            military spouses by Federal agencies.
Sec. 569. Improvement of My Career Advancement Account program for 
                            military spouses.
Sec. 570. Access to military installations for certain surviving 
                            spouses and other next of kin of members of 
                            the Armed Forces who die while on active 
                            duty or certain reserve duty.
Sec. 571. Department of Defense Military Family Readiness Council 
                            matters.
Sec. 572. Multidisciplinary teams for military installations on child 
                            abuse and other domestic violence.
Sec. 573. Provisional or interim clearances to provide childcare 
                            services at military childcare centers.
Sec. 574. Pilot program on prevention of child abuse and training on 
                            safe childcare practices among military 
                            families.
Sec. 575. Pilot program on participation of military spouses in 
                            Transition Assistance Program activities.
Sec. 576. Small business activities of military spouses on military 
                            installations in the United States.
                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 581. Authorization for award of the Distinguished Service Cross 
                            for Justin T. Gallegos for acts of valor 
                            during Operation Enduring Freedom.
Sec. 582. Award of medals or other commendations to handlers of 
                            military working dogs.
                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 591. Authority to award damaged personal protective equipment to 
                            members separating from the Armed Forces 
                            and veterans as mementos of military 
                            service.
Sec. 592. Standardization of frequency of academy visits of the Air 
                            Force Academy Board of Visitors with 
                            academy visits of boards of other military 
                            service academies.
Sec. 593. Redesignation of the Commandant of the United States Air 
                            Force Institute of Technology as the 
                            President of the United States Air Force 
                            Institute of Technology.
Sec. 594. Limitation on justifications entered by military recruiters 
                            for enlistment or accession of individuals 
                            into the Armed Forces.
Sec. 595. National Commission on Military, National, and Public Service 
                            matters.
Sec. 596. Burial of unclaimed remains of inmates at the United States 
                            Disciplinary Barracks Cemetery, Fort 
                            Leavenworth, Kansas.
Sec. 597. Space-available travel on Department of Defense aircraft for 
                            veterans with service-connected 
                            disabilities rated as total.
          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. Fiscal year 2019 increase in military basic pay.
Sec. 602. Repeal of authority for payment of personal money allowances 
                            to Navy officers serving in certain 
                            positions.
Sec. 603. Department of Defense proposal for a pay table for members of 
                            the Armed Forces using steps in grade based 
                            on time in grade rather than time in 
                            service.
Sec. 604. Financial support for lessors under the Military Housing 
                            Privatization Initiative during 2019.
Sec. 605. Modification of authority of President to determine 
                            alternative pay adjustment in annual basic 
                            pay of members of the uniformed services.
Sec. 606. Eligibility of reserve component members for high-deployment 
                            allowance for lengthy or numerous 
                            deployments and frequent mobilizations.
Sec. 607. Eligibility of reserve component members for nonreduction in 
                            pay while serving in the uniformed services 
                            or National Guard.
Sec. 608. Temporary adjustment in rate of basic allowance for housing 
                            following identification of significant 
                            underdetermination of civilian housing 
                            costs for housing areas.
           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain expiring bonus and special pay 
                            authorities.
     Subtitle C--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

Sec. 621. Technical corrections in calculation and publication of 
                            special survivor indemnity allowance cost 
                            of living adjustments.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 631. Rates of per diem for long-term temporary duty assignments.
Sec. 632. Prohibition on per diem allowance reductions based on the 
                            duration of temporary duty assignment or 
                            civilian travel.
                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Consolidation of cost-sharing requirements under TRICARE 
                            Select and TRICARE Prime.
Sec. 702. Administration of TRICARE dental plans through the Federal 
                            Employees Dental Insurance Program.
Sec. 703. Contraception coverage parity under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 704. Pilot program on opioid management in the military health 
                            system.
Sec. 705. Pilot program on treatment of members of the Armed Forces for 
                            post-traumatic stress disorder related to 
                            military sexual trauma.
                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Improvement of administration of Defense Health Agency and 
                            military medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 712. Organizational framework of the military healthcare system to 
                            support medical requirements of the 
                            combatant commands.
Sec. 713. Streamlining of TRICARE Prime beneficiary referral process.
Sec. 714. Sharing of information with State prescription drug 
                            monitoring programs.
Sec. 715. Improvement of reimbursement by Department of Defense of 
                            entities carrying out State vaccination 
                            programs in connection with vaccines 
                            provided to covered beneficiaries under the 
                            TRICARE Program.
                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 721. Extension of authority for Joint Department of Defense-
                            Department of Veterans Affairs Medical 
                            Facility Demonstration Fund.
Sec. 722. Increase in number of appointed members of the Henry M. 
                            Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of 
                            Military Medicine.
Sec. 723. Cessation of requirement for mental health assessment of 
                            members after redeployment from a 
                            contingency operation upon discharge or 
                            release from the Armed Forces.
Sec. 724. Pilot program on earning by special operations forces medics 
                            of credits towards a physician assistant 
                            degree.
Sec. 725. Pilot program on partnerships with civilian organizations for 
                            specialized medical training.
Sec. 726. Registry of individuals exposed to per- and polyfluoroalkyl 
                            substances on military installations.
Sec. 727. Inclusion of gambling disorder in health assessments for 
                            members of the Armed Forces and related 
                            research efforts.
Sec. 728. Comptroller General review of Defense Health Agency oversight 
                            of TRICARE managed care support 
                            contractors.
  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 801. Permanent Supply Chain Risk Management Authority.
Sec. 802. Commercially available market research.
Sec. 803. Comptroller General assessment of acquisition programs and 
                            related initiatives.
Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

Sec. 811. Department of Defense contracting dispute matters.
Sec. 812. Continuation of technical data rights during challenges.
Sec. 813. Increased micro-purchase threshold.
Sec. 814. Modification of limitations on single source task or delivery 
                            order contracts.
Sec. 815. Preliminary cost analysis requirement for exercise of 
                            multiyear contract authority.
Sec. 816. Inclusion of best available information regarding past 
                            performance of subcontractors and joint 
                            venture partners.
Sec. 817. Modification of criteria for waivers of requirement for 
                            certified cost and price data.
Sec. 818. Subcontracting price and approved purchasing systems.
Sec. 819. Comptroller General of the United States report on progress 
                            payment financing of Department of Defense 
                            contracts.
Sec. 820. Authorization to limit foreign access to technology through 
                            contracts.
Sec. 821. Briefing requirement on services contracts.
Sec. 822. Sense of Congress on awarding of contracts to responsible 
                            companies that primarily employ American 
                            workers and do not actively transfer 
                            American jobs to potential adversaries.
 Subtitle C--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

Sec. 831. Program cost, fielding, and performance goals in planning 
                            major acquisition programs.
Sec. 832. Implementation of recommendations of the Independent Study on 
                            Consideration of Sustainment in Weapons 
                            Systems Life Cycle.
Sec. 833. Pilot program to accelerate major weapons system programs.
        Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

Sec. 841. Permanent authority for demonstration projects relating to 
                            acquisition personnel management policies 
                            and procedures.
Sec. 842. Establishment of integrated review team on defense 
                            acquisition industry-government exchange.
Sec. 843. Exchange program for acquisition workforce employees.
          Subtitle E--Provisions Relating to Commercial Items

Sec. 851. Report on commercial item procurement reform.
                  Subtitle F--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 861. National technology and industrial base application process.
Sec. 862. Report on defense electronics industrial base.
Sec. 863. Support for defense manufacturing communities to support the 
                            defense industrial base.
                     Subtitle G--Other Transactions

Sec. 871. Change to notification requirement for other transactions.
Sec. 872. Data and policy on the use of other transactions.
   Subtitle H--Development and Acquisition of Software Intensive and 
                     Digital Products and Services

Sec. 881. Clarifications regarding proprietary and technical data.
Sec. 882. Implementation of recommendations of the final report of the 
                            Defense Science Board Task Force on the 
                            Design and Acquisition of Software for 
                            Defense Systems.
Sec. 883. Implementation of pilot program to use agile or iterative 
                            development methods required under section 
                            873 of the National Defense Authorization 
                            Act for Fiscal Year 2018.
Sec. 884. Enabling and other activities of the Cloud Executive Steering 
                            Group.
                       Subtitle I--Other Matters

Sec. 891. Prohibition on certain telecommunications services or 
                            equipment.
Sec. 892. Limitation on use of funds pending submittal of report on 
                            Army Marketing and Advertising Program.
Sec. 893. Permanent SBIR and STTR authority for the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 894. Procurement of telecommunications supplies for experimental 
                            purposes.
Sec. 895. Access by developmental and operational testing activities to 
                            data regarding modeling and simulation 
                            activity.
      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

Sec. 901. Powers and duties of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                            Research and Engineering in connection with 
                            priority emerging technologies.
Sec. 902. Redesignation and modification of responsibilities of Under 
                            Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
                            Readiness.
Sec. 903. Modification of responsibilities of the Under Secretary of 
                            Defense for Policy.
Sec. 904. Report on allocation of former responsibilities of the Under 
                            Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
                            Technology, and Logistics.
Sec. 905. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Strategy, Plans, 
                            Assessments, Readiness, and Capabilities.
Sec. 906. Clarification of responsibilities and duties of the Chief 
                            Information Officer of the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 907. Specification of certain duties of the Defense Technical 
                            Information Center.
Sec. 908. Limitation on termination of, and transfer of functions, 
                            responsibilities, and activities of, the 
                            Strategic Capabilities Office.
Sec. 909. Technical corrections to Department of Defense Test Resource 
                            Management Center authority.
Subtitle B--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

Sec. 921. Modification of certain responsibilities of the Chairman of 
                            the Joint Chiefs of Staff relating to joint 
                            force concept development.
Sec. 922. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and 
                            Low-Intensity Conflict review of United 
                            States Special Operations Command.
Sec. 923. Qualifications for appointment as Deputy Chief Management 
                            Officer of a military department.
Sec. 924. Expansion of principal duties of Assistant Secretary of the 
                            Navy for Research, Development, and 
                            Acquisition.
Sec. 925. Cross-functional teams in the Department of Defense.
Sec. 926. Deadline for completion of full implementation of 
                            requirements in connection with 
                            organization of the Department of Defense 
                            for management of special operations forces 
                            and special operations.
 Subtitle C--Organization and Management of the Department of Defense 
                               Generally

Sec. 931. Limitation on availability of funds for major headquarters 
                            activities of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 932. Responsibility for policy on civilian casualty matters.
Sec. 933. Additional matters in connection with background and security 
                            investigations for Department of Defense 
                            personnel.
Sec. 934. Program of expedited security clearances for mission-critical 
                            positions.
Sec. 935. Information sharing program for positions of trust.
Sec. 936. Report on clearance in person concept.
Sec. 937. Strategic Defense Fellows Program.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 941. Analysis of Department of Defense business management and 
                            operations datasets to promote savings and 
                            efficiencies.
Sec. 942. Research and development to advance capabilities of the 
                            Department of Defense in data integration 
                            and advanced analytics in connection with 
                            personnel security.
                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Inclusion of funds for Air Force pass-through items in 
                            Defense-wide budget for the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 1003. Report on shift in requests for funds for Department of 
                            Defense activities from funds for overseas 
                            contingency operations to funds through the 
                            base budget.
Sec. 1004. Ranking of auditability of financial statements of the 
                            organizations and elements of the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 1005. Transparency of accounting firms used to support Department 
                            of Defense audit.
                Subtitle B--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1011. Date of listing of vessels as battle force ships in the 
                            Naval Vessel Register and other fleet 
                            inventory measures.
Sec. 1012. Annual reports on examination of Navy vessels.
Sec. 1013. Limitation on duration of homeporting of certain vessels in 
                            foreign locations.
Sec. 1014. Specific authorization requirement for nuclear refueling of 
                            aircraft carriers.
Sec. 1015. Dismantlement and disposal of nuclear-powered aircraft 
                            carriers.
Sec. 1016. National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1017. Limitation on use of funds for retirement of hospital ships.
                      Subtitle C--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1021. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or 
                            release of individuals detained at United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
                            to the United States.
Sec. 1022. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to construct or 
                            modify facilities in the United States to 
                            house detainees transferred from United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1023. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or 
                            release of individuals detained at United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
                            to certain countries.
Sec. 1024. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to close or 
                            relinquish control of United States Naval 
                            Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1025. Authority to transfer individuals detained at United States 
                            Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the 
                            United States temporarily for emergency or 
                            critical medical treatment.
         Subtitle D--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1031. Strategic guidance documents within the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 1032. Guidance on the electronic warfare mission area and joint 
                            electromagnetic spectrum operations.
Sec. 1033. Limitation on use of funds for United States Special 
                            Operations Command Global Messaging and 
                            Counter-Messaging platform.
Sec. 1034. Sense of Congress on the basing of KC-46A aircraft outside 
                            the continental United States.
Sec. 1035. Relinquishment of legislative jurisdiction of criminal 
                            offenses committed by juveniles on military 
                            installations.
Sec. 1036. Policy on response to juvenile-on-juvenile abuse committed 
                            on military installations.
                    Subtitle E--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1041. Report on highest-priority roles and missions of the 
                            Department of Defense and the Armed Forces.
Sec. 1042. Annual reports by the Armed Forces on Out-Year Unconstrained 
                            Total Munitions Requirements and Out-Year 
                            inventory numbers.
Sec. 1043. Comprehensive review of operational and administrative 
                            chains-of-command and functions of the 
                            Department of the Navy.
Sec. 1044. Military aviation readiness review in support of the 
                            National Defense Strategy.
Sec. 1045. Report on capabilities and capacities of Armored Brigade 
                            Combat Teams.
Sec. 1046. Improvement of annual report on civilian casualties in 
                            connection with United States military 
                            operations.
Sec. 1047. Report on Department of Defense participation in Export 
                            Administration Regulations license 
                            application review process.
Sec. 1048. Automatic sunset for future statutory reporting 
                            requirements.
Sec. 1049. Repeal of certain Department of Defense reporting 
                            requirements that otherwise terminate as of 
                            December 31, 2021.
Sec. 1050. Report on potential improvements to certain military 
                            educational institutions of the Department 
                            of Defense.
Sec. 1051. Recruiting costs of the Armed Forces.
                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 1061. Authority to transfer funds for Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup.
Sec. 1062. Improvement of database on emergency response capabilities.
Sec. 1063. Acceptance and distribution by Department of Defense of 
                            assistance from certain nonprofit entities 
                            in support of missions of deployed United 
                            States personnel around the world.
Sec. 1064. United States policy with respect to freedom of navigation 
                            and overflight.
Sec. 1065. Prohibition of funds for Chinese language instruction 
                            provided by a Confucius Institute.
                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

               Subtitle A--Department of Defense Matters

Sec. 1101. Inapplicability of certification of executive qualifications 
                            by qualification review boards of Office of 
                            Personnel Management for initial 
                            appointments to Senior Executive Service 
                            positions in Department of Defense.
Sec. 1102. Direct hire authority for science and technology reinvention 
                            laboratories and Major Range and Test 
                            Facilities Base facilities for recent 
                            science, technology, engineering, and 
                            mathematics graduates of minority-serving 
                            institutions.
Sec. 1103. Inclusion of Strategic Capabilities Office and Defense 
                            Innovation Unit Experimental of the 
                            Department of Defense in personnel 
                            management authority to attract experts in 
                            science and engineering.
Sec. 1104. Enhancement of flexible management authorities for Science 
                            and Technology Reinvention Laboratories of 
                            the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1105. Inclusion of Office of Secretary of Defense among components 
                            of the Department of Defense covered by 
                            direct hire authority for financial 
                            management experts.
Sec. 1106. Authority to employ civilian faculty members at the Joint 
                            Special Operations University.
                  Subtitle B--Government-Wide Matters

Sec. 1121. Alcohol testing of civil service mariners of the Military 
                            Sealift Command assigned to vessels.
Sec. 1122. Expedited hiring authority for college graduates and post 
                            secondary students.
Sec. 1123. Increase in maximum amount of voluntary separation incentive 
                            pay authorized for civilian employees.
Sec. 1124. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
                            allowances, benefits, and gratuities to 
                            civilian personnel on official duty in a 
                            combat zone.
Sec. 1125. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation 
                            on premium pay and aggregate limitation on 
                            pay for Federal civilian employees working 
                            overseas.
             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. Clarification of authority for use of advisors and trainers 
                            for training of personnel of foreign 
                            ministries with security missions under 
                            defense institution capacity building 
                            authorities.
Sec. 1202. Modification to Department of Defense State Partnership 
                            Program.
Sec. 1203. Expansion of Regional Defense Combating Terrorism Fellowship 
                            Program to include irregular warfare.
Sec. 1204. Extension and modification of authority to support border 
                            security operations of certain foreign 
                            countries.
Sec. 1205. Legal and policy review of advise, assist, and accompany 
                            missions.
Sec. 1206. Technical corrections relating to defense security 
                            cooperation statutory reorganization.
Sec. 1207. Naval Small Craft Instruction and Technical Training School.
        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1212. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
                            certain coalition nations for support 
                            provided to United States military 
                            operations.
Sec. 1213. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and 
                            provide defense services to the military 
                            and security forces of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1214. Modification of reporting requirements for special immigrant 
                            visas for Afghan allies program.
         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

Sec. 1221. Extension of authority to provide assistance to counter the 
                            Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
Sec. 1222. Extension and modification of authority to provide 
                            assistance to the vetted Syrian opposition.
Sec. 1223. Extension and modification of authority to support 
                            operations and activities of the Office of 
                            Security Cooperation in Iraq.
Sec. 1224. Syria Study Group.
Sec. 1225. Modification of annual report on military power of Iran.
   Subtitle D--Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation

Sec. 1231. Extension of limitation on military cooperation between the 
                            United States and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1232. Limitation on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
                            of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 1233. Extension of Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative.
Sec. 1234. Sense of Senate on relocation of Joint Intelligence Analysis 
                            Complex.
Sec. 1235. Sense of Senate on enhancing deterrence against Russian 
                            aggression in Europe.
Sec. 1236. Technical amendments related to NATO Support and Procurement 
                            Organization and related NATO agreements.
Sec. 1237. Report on security cooperation between the Russian 
                            Federation and Cuba, Nicaragua, and 
                            Venezuela.
Sec. 1238. Sense of Senate on countering Russian malign influence.
        Subtitle E--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

Sec. 1241. Redesignation, expansion, and extension of Southeast Asia 
                            Maritime Security Initiative.
Sec. 1242. Modification of annual report on military and security 
                            developments involving the People's 
                            Republic of China.
Sec. 1243. Sense of Senate on Taiwan.
Sec. 1244. Redesignation and modification of sense of Congress and 
                            initiative for the Indo-Asia-Pacific 
                            region.
Sec. 1245. Prohibition on participation of the People's Republic of 
                            China in Rim of the Pacific (RIMPAC) naval 
                            exercises.
Sec. 1246. Assessment of and report on geopolitical conditions in the 
                            Indo-Pacific region.
Sec. 1247. Sense of Senate on United States-India defense relationship.
Sec. 1248. Sense of Senate on strategic importance of maintaining 
                            commitments under Compacts of Free 
                            Association.
Sec. 1249. Sense of Senate on United States military forces on the 
                            Korean Peninsula.
                          Subtitle F--Reports

Sec. 1251. Report on military and coercive activities of the People's 
                            Republic of China in South China Sea.
Sec. 1252. Report on terrorist use of human shields.
Sec. 1253. Report on Arctic strategies.
Sec. 1254. Report on permanent stationing of a United States Army 
                            brigade combat team in the Republic of 
                            Poland.
Sec. 1255. Reports on nuclear capabilities of the Democratic People's 
                            Republic of Korea.
Sec. 1256. Report on United States military training opportunities with 
                            allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific 
                            region.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1261. Modification of authorities relating to acquisition and 
                            cross-servicing agreements.
Sec. 1262. Extension of authority for transfer of amounts for Global 
                            Engagement Center.
Sec. 1263. Sense of Senate on purchase by Turkey of S-400 air defense 
                            system.
Sec. 1264. Department of Defense support for stabilization activities 
                            in national security interest of the United 
                            States.
Sec. 1265. Enhancement of U.S.-Israel defense cooperation.
Sec. 1266. Certifications regarding actions by Saudi Arabia in Yemen.
Sec. 1267. Sense of Senate on support for G5 Sahel Joint Force 
                            countries.
Sec. 1268. Sense of Congress on broadening and expanding strategic 
                            partnerships and allies.
Sec. 1269. Removal of Turkey from the F-35 program.
Sec. 1270. Increase in minimum amount of obligations from the Special 
                            Defense Acquisition Fund for precision 
                            guided munitions.
                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding allocations.
                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.
                 Subtitle B--National Defense Stockpile

Sec. 1411. Consolidation of reporting requirements under the Strategic 
                            and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act.
                Subtitle C--Armed Forces Retirement Home

Sec. 1421. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
                            Home.
Sec. 1422. Expansion of eligibility for residence at the Armed Forces 
                            Retirement Home.
Sec. 1423. Oversight of health care provided to residents of the Armed 
                            Forces Retirement Home.
Sec. 1424. Modification of authority on acceptance of gifts for the 
                            Armed Forces Retirement Home.
Sec. 1425. Relief for residents of the Armed Forces Retirement Home 
                            impacted by increase in fees.
Sec. 1426. Limitation on applicability of fee increase for residents of 
                            the Armed Forces Retirement Home.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 1431. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
                            Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
                            Medical Facility Demonstration Fund for 
                            Captain James A. Lovell Health Care Center, 
                            Illinois.
Sec. 1432. Economical and efficient operation of working capital fund 
                            activities.
   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

              Subtitle A--Authorizations of Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Purpose.
Sec. 1502. Overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1503. Procurement.
Sec. 1504. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1505. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1506. Military personnel.
Sec. 1507. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1508. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1509. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1510. Defense Health Program.
                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1521. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1522. Special transfer authority.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 1531. Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Organization.
     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Modifications to Space Rapid Capabilities Office.
Sec. 1602. Space warfighting policy and review of space capabilities.
Sec. 1603. Report on enhancements to the Global Positioning System 
                            Operational Control Segment.
Sec. 1604. Streamline of commercial space launch operations.
Sec. 1605. Reusable launch vehicles.
Sec. 1606. Review of and report on activities of International Space 
                            Station.
  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-related Activities

Sec. 1611. Framework on governance, mission management, resourcing, and 
                            effective oversight of Department of 
                            Defense combat support agencies that are 
                            also elements of the intelligence 
                            community.
                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-related Matters

                      PART I--Cyberspace Generally

Sec. 1621. Policy of the United States on cyberspace, cybersecurity, 
                            cyber warfare, and cyber deterrence.
Sec. 1622. Affirming the authority of the Secretary of Defense to 
                            conduct military activities and operations 
                            in cyberspace.
Sec. 1623. Active defense and surveillance against Russian Federation 
                            attacks in cyberspace.
Sec. 1624. Reorganization and consolidation of certain cyber 
                            provisions.
Sec. 1625. Designation of official for matters relating to integrating 
                            cybersecurity and industrial control 
                            systems within the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1626. Assistance for small manufacturers in the defense industrial 
                            supply chain on matters relating to 
                            cybersecurity.
Sec. 1627. Modification of acquisition authority of the Commander of 
                            the United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 1628. Email and Internet website security and authentication.
Sec. 1629. Matters pertaining to the Sharkseer cybersecurity program.
Sec. 1630. Pilot program on modeling and simulation in support of 
                            military homeland defense operations in 
                            connection with cyber attacks on critical 
                            infrastructure.
Sec. 1631. Security product integration framework.
Sec. 1632. Report on enhancement of software security for critical 
                            systems.
Sec. 1633. Comply to connect and cybersecurity scorecard.
Sec. 1634. Cyberspace Solarium Commission.
Sec. 1635. Program to establish cyber institutes at institutions of 
                            higher learning.
Sec. 1636. Establishment of Cybersecurity for Defense Industrial Base 
                            Manufacturing Activity.
    PART II--Mitigation of Risks Posed by Providers of Information 
           Technology With Obligations to Foreign Governments

Sec. 1637. Definitions.
Sec. 1638. Identification of countries of concern regarding 
                            cybersecurity.
Sec. 1639. Mitigation of risks to national security posed by providers 
                            of information technology products and 
                            services who have obligations to foreign 
                            governments.
Sec. 1640. Establishment of registry of disclosures.
                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1641. Oversight and management of the command, control, and 
                            communications system for the national 
                            leadership of the United States.
Sec. 1642. Modification to requirement for conventional long-range 
                            standoff weapon.
Sec. 1643. Exchange program for nuclear weapons program employees.
Sec. 1644. Procurement authority for certain parts of intercontinental 
                            ballistic missile fuzes.
Sec. 1645. Plan to train officers in nuclear command, control, and 
                            communications.
Sec. 1646. Plan for alignment of acquisition of warhead life extension 
                            programs and delivery vehicles for such 
                            warheads.
Sec. 1647. Extension of annual report on plan for the nuclear weapons 
                            stockpile, nuclear weapons complex, nuclear 
                            weapons delivery systems, and nuclear 
                            weapons command and control system.
Sec. 1648. Prohibition on use of funds for activities to modify United 
                            States aircraft to implement Open Skies 
                            Treaty.
Sec. 1649. Sense of Senate on Nuclear Posture Review.
                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

Sec. 1651. Extension of prohibition relating to missile defense 
                            information and systems.
Sec. 1652. Multiyear procurement authority for Standard Missile-3 IB 
                            guided missiles.
Sec. 1653. Extension of requirement for reports on unfunded priorities 
                            of Missile Defense Agency.
Sec. 1654. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli 
                            cooperative missile defense program co-
                            development and co-production.
Sec. 1655. Metrics for evaluating effectiveness of integrated Ballistic 
                            Missile Defense System against 
                            operationally realistic ballistic missile 
                            attacks.
Sec. 1656. Modification of requirement relating to transition of 
                            ballistic missile defense programs to 
                            military departments.
Sec. 1657. Sense of the Senate on acceleration of missile defense 
                            capabilities.
Sec. 1658. Integrated air and missile defense for evolving theater 
                            missile threats.
Sec. 1659. Acceleration of hypersonic missile defense program.
Sec. 1660. Sense of the Senate on allied partnerships for missile 
                            defense.
Sec. 1660A. Sense of the Senate on results of tests carried out by 
                            Missile Defense Agency.
Sec. 1660B. Sense of the Senate on discrimination for missile defense.
Sec. 1660C. Development and deployment of persistent space-based sensor 
                            architecture.
Sec. 1660D. Modification of requirement to develop a space-based 
                            ballistic missile intercept layer.
                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 1661. Assessment of electronic warfare capabilities of Russia and 
                            China.
Sec. 1662. Budget exhibit on support provided to entities outside 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 1663. Development of Electromagnetic Battle Management capability 
                            for joint electromagnetic operations.
    TITLE XVII--COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES

Sec. 1701. Short title.
Sec. 1702. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 1703. Definitions.
Sec. 1704. Acceptance of written notices.
Sec. 1705. Inclusion of partnership and side agreements in notice.
Sec. 1706. Declarations for certain covered transactions.
Sec. 1707. Stipulations regarding transactions.
Sec. 1708. Authority for unilateral initiation of reviews.
Sec. 1709. Timing for reviews and investigations.
Sec. 1710. Monitoring of non-notified and non-declared transactions.
Sec. 1711. Submission of certifications to Congress.
Sec. 1712. Analysis by Director of National Intelligence.
Sec. 1713. Information sharing.
Sec. 1714. Action by the President.
Sec. 1715. Judicial review.
Sec. 1716. Membership and staff of Committee.
Sec. 1717. Actions by the Committee to address national security risks.
Sec. 1718. Modification of annual report and other reporting 
                            requirements.
Sec. 1719. Certification of notices and information.
Sec. 1720. Implementation plans.
Sec. 1721. Assessment of need for additional resources for Committee.
Sec. 1722. Funding.
Sec. 1723. Centralization of certain Committee functions.
Sec. 1724. Conforming amendments.
Sec. 1725. Requirements to identify and control the export of emerging 
                            and foundational technologies.
Sec. 1726. Export control enforcement authority.
Sec. 1727. Prohibition on modification of civil penalties under export 
                            control and sanctions laws.
Sec. 1728. Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security.
Sec. 1729. Limitation on cancellation of designation of Secretary of 
                            the Air Force as Department of Defense 
                            Executive Agent for a certain Defense 
                            Production Act program.
Sec. 1730. Review of and report on certain defense technologies 
                            critical to the United States maintaining 
                            superior military capabilities.
Sec. 1731. Briefing on information from transactions reviewed by 
                            Committee on Foreign Investment in the 
                            United States relating to foreign efforts 
                            to influence democratic institutions and 
                            processes.
Sec. 1732. Effective date.
Sec. 1733. Severability.
            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
                            specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.
                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
                            projects.
Sec. 2105. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2016 
                            project.
                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out certain phased 
                            project authorized in fiscal years 2015, 
                            2016, and 2017.
Sec. 2306. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2017 project.
Sec. 2307. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2018 project.
Sec. 2308. Additional authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2019 
                            projects.
           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized defense agencies construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2402. Energy Resilience and Conservation Investment Program.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, defense agencies.
Sec. 2404. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2015 
                            projects.
Sec. 2405. Authorization of certain fiscal year 2018 project.
                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.
             Subtitle B--Host Country In-kind Contributions

Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.
            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
                            construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.
                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 2611. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2016 project.
Sec. 2612. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2018 project.
Sec. 2613. Additional authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2019 
                            project.
          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
                            closure activities funded through 
                            Department of Defense Base Closure Account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and 
                            closure (BRAC) round.
       TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing 
                                Changes

Sec. 2801. Additional authority to obtain architectural and engineering 
                            services and construction design for 
                            defense laboratory modernization pilot 
                            program.
Sec. 2802. Modification of contract authority for acquisition, 
                            construction, or furnishing of test 
                            facilities and equipment.
Sec. 2803. Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation 
                            and maintenance funds for construction 
                            projects in certain areas outside the 
                            United States.
Sec. 2804. Unspecified minor military construction projects related to 
                            revitalization and recapitalization of 
                            Defense Industrial Base Facilities.
Sec. 2805. Congressional oversight of projects carried out pursuant to 
                            laws other than Military Construction 
                            Authorization Acts.
          Subtitle B--Project Management and Oversight Reforms

Sec. 2811. Updates and modifications to Department of Defense Form 
                            1391, Unified Facilities Criteria, and 
                            military installation master plans.
Sec. 2812. Work in Process Curve charts and outlay tables for military 
                            construction projects.
                      Subtitle C--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2821. Land exchange, Air Force Plant 44, Tucson, Arizona.
Sec. 2822. Land conveyance, Eglin Air Force Base, Florida.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 2831. Commemoration of Freedman's Village.
Sec. 2832. Strategic plan to improve capabilities of Department of 
                            Defense training ranges and installations.
Sec. 2833. Native American Indian lands environmental mitigation 
                            program.
Sec. 2834. Defense community infrastructure pilot program.
Sec. 2835. Representation of installation interests in negotiations and 
                            proceedings with carriers and other public 
                            utilities.
Sec. 2836. White Sands Missile Range land enhancements.
Sec. 2837. Authority to transfer funds for construction of Indian River 
                            Bridge.
   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2901. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2904. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2905. Authorization of appropriations.
 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.
   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Clarification of roles and authorities of National Nuclear 
                            Security Administration.
Sec. 3112. National Nuclear Security Administration Personnel System.
Sec. 3113. Amendments to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.
Sec. 3114. Extension of enhanced procurement authority to manage supply 
                            chain risk.
Sec. 3115. Pilot program on conduct by Department of Energy of 
                            background reviews for access by certain 
                            individuals to national security 
                            laboratories.
Sec. 3116. Extension of authority for acceptance of contributions for 
                            acceleration of removal or security of 
                            fissile materials, radiological materials, 
                            and related equipment at vulnerable sites 
                            worldwide.
Sec. 3117. Modification of limitation on development of low-yield 
                            nuclear weapons.
Sec. 3118. Prohibition on use of funds for terminating activities at 
                            MOX facility.
                     Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

Sec. 3121. Modifications to cost-benefit analyses for competition of 
                            management and operating contracts.
Sec. 3122. Review of defense environmental cleanup activities.
Sec. 3123. Survey of workforce of national security laboratories and 
                            nuclear weapons production facilities.
Sec. 3124. Elimination of certain reports.
Sec. 3125. Implementation of Nuclear Posture Review by National Nuclear 
                            Security Administration.
          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.
                  TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3501. Maritime Administration.
Sec. 3502. Permanent authority of Secretary of Transportation to issue 
                            vessel war risk insurance.
                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.
                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.
        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
                            contingency operations.
                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
                            operations.
                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.
                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.
                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.
      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.

SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.

    In this Act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United 
States Code.

SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purposes of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, jointly submitted for printing in the 
Congressional Record by the Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget 
Committees, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to 
the vote on passage in the House acting first on the conference report 
or amendment between the Houses.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 
for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air 
Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4101.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

SEC. 111. DEPLOYMENT BY THE ARMY OF AN INTERIM CRUISE MISSILE DEFENSE 
              CAPABILITY.

    (a) Certification of Need.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall certify to 
the congressional defense committees whether deployment of an interim, 
fixed site cruise missile defense capability is necessary.
    (b) Deployment Required.--The Army shall deploy an interim, fixed 
site cruise missile defense capability, in anticipation of delivery to 
the Army of the Indirect Fire Protection Capability (IFPC), by the 
deadlines as follows:
            (1) Two batteries by not later than September 30, 2020.
            (2) Two additional batteries by not later than September 
        30, 2023.
    (c) Locations of Deployment.--In deploying the interim capability 
pursuant to subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall afford a 
priority in locations for deployment to air bases and significant fixed 
site locations in Europe and Asia for the purpose of the protection of 
such bases and locations against potential cruise missile threats.
    (d) Achievement of Deployment Deadlines.--In order to meet the 
deadlines for deployment specified in subsection (b), the Army--
            (1) shall deploy systems that require the least amount of 
        development; and
            (2) may use a combination of--
                    (A) procurement of non-developmental air and 
                missile defense systems currently in production to 
                ensure rapid delivery of capability;
                    (B) use of existing systems, components, and 
                capabilities already in the Joint Force inventory, 
                including rockets and missiles as available;
                    (C) operational information technology for 
                communication, detection, and fire control that is 
                certified to work with existing joint information 
                technology systems to ensure interoperability;
                    (D) engagement and collaboration with science and 
                technology, engineering, testing, and acquisition 
                organization and activities in the Department of 
                Defense, including the Defense Innovation United 
                Experimental, the Director of Operational Test and 
                Evaluation, the Defense Digital Service, the Strategic 
                Capabilities Office, and the Rapid Capabilities 
                offices, to accelerate the development, testing, and 
                deployment of existing systems; and
                    (E) institutional and operational basing to 
                facilitate rapid training and fielding.
    (e) Funding.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2019 by section 101 and available for the Army for 
procurement as specified in the funding table in section 4101, up to 
$500,000,000 may be available for the deployment of the interim 
capability required by subsection (b).

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

SEC. 121. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR F/A-18E/F SUPER HORNET 
              AND EA-18G AIRCRAFT PROGRAM.

    (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to section 2306b 
of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Navy may enter 
into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 
2019 program year, for the procurement of F/A-18E/F Super Hornet and 
potential EA-18G aircraft. Notwithstanding subsection (k) of such 
section 2306b, the Secretary of Defense may enter into a multiyear 
contract under this section for up to three years.
    (b) Authority for Advance Procurement.--The Secretary of the Navy 
may enter into one or more contracts for advance procurement associated 
with the F/A-18E/F Super Hornet and potential EA-18G aircraft, 
including economic order quantity, for which authorization to enter 
into a multiyear procurement contract is provided under subsection (a).
    (c) Cost Analysis Requirement.--The Secretary may not exercise the 
authority provided under subsection (a) or (b) until the Secretary of 
Defense submits to the congressional defense committees the report and 
confirmation required under subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, of 
section 2306b(i)(2) of title 10, United States Code.
    (d) Condition for Out-Year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2019 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
or funds for that purpose for such later fiscal year.

SEC. 122. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR E-2D ADVANCED HAWKEYE 
              (AHE) AIRCRAFT PROGRAM.

    (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to section 2306b 
of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Navy may enter 
into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 
2019 program year, for the procurement of E-2D Advanced Hawkeye (AHE) 
aircraft. Notwithstanding subsection (k) of such section 2306b, the 
Secretary of Defense may enter into a multiyear contract under this 
section for up to five years.
    (b) Authority for Advance Procurement and Economic Order 
Quantity.--The Secretary may enter into one or more contracts for 
advance procurement associated with the E-2D AHE (including economic 
order quantity) for which authorization to enter into a multiyear 
procurement contract is provided under subsection (a).
    (c) Cost Analysis Requirement.--The Secretary may not exercise the 
authority provided under subsection (a) or (b) until the Secretary of 
Defense submits to the congressional defense committees the report and 
confirmation required under subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, of 
section 2306b(i)(2) of title 10, United States Code.
    (d) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2019 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for such later fiscal year.

SEC. 123. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON USE OF SOLE-SOURCE SHIPBUILDING 
              CONTRACTS FOR CERTAIN VESSELS.

    Section 124 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328), as amended by section 127 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
115-91), is further amended by striking ``or fiscal year 2018'' and 
inserting ``, fiscal year 2018, or fiscal year 2019''.

SEC. 124. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR NAVY PORT WATERBORNE 
              SECURITY BARRIERS.

    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided under subsection (b), none of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2019 may be 
used for the procurement of new Navy port waterborne security barriers.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of the Navy may waive the prohibition 
under subsection (a) not less than 30 days after submitting to the 
congressional defense committees--
            (1) a Navy requirements document that specifies Key 
        Performance Parameters and Key System Attributes for new Navy 
        port waterborne security barriers;
            (2) a certification that the level of capability specified 
        under paragraph (1) will meet or exceed that of legacy Navy 
        port waterborne security barriers;
            (3) the acquisition strategy for the recapitalization of 
        legacy Navy port waterborne security barriers, which will meet 
        or exceed the requirements specified under paragraph (1); and
            (4) a certification that any contract award or awards for 
        new Navy port waterborne security barriers will result from 
        full and open competition to the maximum extent practicable.

SEC. 125. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR STANDARD MISSILE-6.

    (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to section 2306b 
of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Navy may enter 
into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 
2019 program year, for the procurement of up to 625 Standard Missile-6 
guided missiles.
    (b) Authority for Advance Procurement and Economic Order 
Quantity.--The Secretary may enter into one or more contracts for 
advance procurement associated with the missiles (including economic 
order quantity) for which authorization to enter into a multiyear 
procurement contract is provided under subsection (a).
    (c) Cost Analysis Requirement.--The Secretary may not exercise the 
authority provided under subsection (a) or (b) until the Secretary of 
Defense submits to the congressional defense committees the report and 
confirmation required under subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, of 
section 2306b(i)(2) of title 10, United States Code.
    (d) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2019 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for such later fiscal year.

SEC. 126. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE LITTORAL COMBAT 
              SHIP.

    (a) Limitation.--None of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense 
for fiscal year 2019 may be used to exceed the total procurement 
quantity listed in revision five of the Littoral Combat Ship 
acquisition strategy unless the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment submits to the congressional defense 
committees the certification described in subsection (b).
    (b) Certification.--The certification described in this subsection 
is a certification by the Under Secretary that awarding a contract for 
the procurement of a Littoral Combat Ship that exceeds the total 
procurement quantity listed in revision five of the Littoral Combat 
Ship acquisition strategy--
            (1) is in the national security interests of the United 
        States;
            (2) will not result in exceeding the low-rate initial 
        production quantity approved in the Littoral Combat Ship 
        acquisition strategy in effect as of the date of the 
        certification; and
            (3) is necessary to maintain a full and open competition 
        for the Guided Missile Frigate (FFG(X)) with a single source 
        award in fiscal year 2020.
    (c) Definition.--The term ``revision five of the Littoral Combat 
Ship acquisition strategy'' means the fifth revision of the Littoral 
Combat Ship acquisition strategy approved by the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment on March 26, 2018.

SEC. 127. NUCLEAR REFUELING OF AIRCRAFT CARRIERS.

    (a) Authorization To Procure Nuclear Refueling Materials.--Pursuant 
to section 7314a of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 
1014 of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy may procure naval nuclear 
reactor power units and associated reactor components for the following 
aircraft carriers:
            (1) U.S.S. John C. Stennis (CVN-74).
            (2) U.S.S. Harry S. Truman (CVN-75).
            (3) U.S.S. Ronald Reagan (CVN-76).
            (4) U.S.S. George H.W. Bush (CVN-77).
    (b) Condition for Out-year Payments.--Any contract entered into 
under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the United 
States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year after 
fiscal year 2019 is subject to availability of appropriations for that 
purpose for that later fiscal year.

SEC. 128. LIMITATION ON FUNDING FOR AMPHIBIOUS ASSAULT VEHICLE PRODUCT 
              IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.

    Not more than 75 percent of the funds authorized by this Act or 
otherwise made available for the Marine Corps for fiscal year 2019 for 
the Amphibious Assault Vehicle Product Improvement Program (AAV PIP) 
may be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Defense has 
submitted to the congressional defense committees--
            (1) the report required under subsection (b) of section 
        1041; or
            (2) the information required under paragraph (5) of such 
        subsection.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

SEC. 141. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF E-8 
              JSTARS AIRCRAFT.

    (a) Prohibition on Availability of Funds for Retirement.--Except as 
provided by subsection (d), none of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 
2019 for the Air Force may be obligated or expended to retire, or 
prepare to retire, any E-8 Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar 
System aircraft.
    (b) Additional Limitation on Retirement.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to the prohibition in 
        subsection (a), the Secretary of the Air Force may not retire, 
        or prepare to retire, any E-8C aircraft until the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment submits to 
        the congressional defense committees the certification 
        described under paragraph (2).
            (2) Required certification.--The certification referred to 
        in paragraph (1) is a certification submitted by the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment to the 
        congressional defense committees that the Department of 
        Defense's plan for 21st Century Battle Management Command and 
        Control, as briefed to the congressional defense committees in 
        March 2018, is progressing according to the schedule presented 
        in March 2018.
    (c) Exception.--The prohibitions in subsections (a) and (b) shall 
not apply to individual E-8 Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar 
System aircraft that the Secretary of the Air Force determines, on a 
case-by-case basis, to be nonoperational because of mishaps, other 
damage, or being uneconomical to repair.

SEC. 142. B-52H AIRCRAFT SYSTEM MODERNIZATION REPORT.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the long term modernization of the B-52H 
aircraft, including an estimated timeline and requirements as an 
integrated aircraft system of--
            (1) electronic warfare and defensive systems;
            (2) communications including secure jam resistant 
        capability;
            (3) radar replacement;
            (4) engine replacement;
            (5) future weapons and targeting capability; and
            (6) mission planning systems.

SEC. 143. REPEAL OF FUNDING RESTRICTION FOR EC-130H COMPASS CALL 
              RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM AND REVIEW OF PROGRAM 
              ACCELERATION OPPORTUNITIES.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 131 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2037) is repealed.
    (b) Periodic Reports Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 30, 2018, June 30, 
        2019, and December 30, 2019, the Secretary of the Air Force 
        shall submit to the congressional defense committees a series 
        of updated program status reports for the EC-130H Compass Call 
        Recapitalization Program.
            (2) Elements.--The reports required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include--
                    (A) a program status update describing progress in 
                meeting current and future acquisition milestones;
                    (B) a description of opportunities to accelerate 
                the program in fiscal years 2020 and 2021;
                    (C) a description of long-lead items or other block 
                buy components that could reduce cost and lead to 
                acceleration of the program;
                    (D) funding requirements to carry out program 
                acceleration in order to replace the legacy EC-130H 
                fleet as rapidly as possible; and
                    (E) a description of how the EC-130H Compass Call 
                Recapitalization Program--
                            (i) meets the requirements of combatant 
                        commanders; and
                            (ii) is more operationally effective and 
                        survivable than the existing EC-130H Compass 
                        Call aircraft platform.

       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

SEC. 151. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR C-130J AIRCRAFT PROGRAM.

    (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to section 2306b 
of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Air Force may 
enter into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning with the fiscal 
year 2019 program year, for the procurement of C-130J aircraft and, 
acting as the executive agent for the Department of the Navy, for the 
procurement of C-130J aircraft.
    (b) Authority for Advance Procurement and Economic Order 
Quantity.--The Secretary of the Air Force may enter into one or more 
contracts for advance procurement associated with the C-130J aircraft, 
including economic order quantity, for which authorization to enter 
into a multiyear procurement contract is provided under subsection (a).
    (c) Condition for Out-Year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2019 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for such later fiscal year.
    (d) Treatment of Fiscal Year 2018 Aircraft.--The multiyear contract 
authority under subsection (a) includes C-130J aircraft for which funds 
were appropriated for fiscal year 2018.

SEC. 152. QUARTERLY UPDATES ON THE F-35 JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Beginning not later than October 1, 2018, and on a 
quarterly basis thereafter through October 1, 2024, the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall provide to the 
congressional defense committees a briefing on the progress of the F-35 
Joint Strike Fighter program.
    (b) Elements.--Each briefing under subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program, the following 
elements:
            (1) An overview of the program schedule.
            (2) A description of each contract awarded under the 
        program, including a description of the type of contract and 
        the status of the contract.
            (3) An assessment of the status of the program with respect 
        to--
                    (A) modernization;
                    (B) modification;
                    (C) testing;
                    (D) delivery;
                    (E) sustainment; and
                    (F) program management.

SEC. 153. AUTHORITY TO PROCURE ADDITIONAL POLAR-CLASS ICEBREAKERS.

    Section 122 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``icebreaker 
        vessel'' and inserting ``authorization to procure up to six 
        polar-class icebreakers'';
            (2) by striking subsections (a) and (b);
            (3) by inserting before subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(a) Authority To Procure Icebreakers.--The Secretary of the 
department in which the Coast Guard is operating may, in consultation 
with the Secretary of the Navy, enter into a contract or contracts for 
the procurement of up to six polar-class icebreakers, including--
            ``(1) polar-class heavy icebreakers; and
            ``(2) polar-class medium icebreakers.'';
            (4) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
        (b) and (c), respectively; and
            (5) in paragraph (1) of subsection (b), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (4) of this section, by striking ``subsection 
        (a)(1)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)''.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4201.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 211. CODIFICATION AND REAUTHORIZATION OF DEFENSE RESEARCH AND 
              DEVELOPMENT RAPID INNOVATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Codification.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 139 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by inserting after section 2359 the following 
        new section:
``Sec. 2359a. Defense Research and Development Rapid Innovation Program
    ``(a) Program Established.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish a competitive, merit-based program to accelerate the fielding 
of technologies developed pursuant to phase II Small Business 
Innovation Research Program projects, technologies developed by the 
defense laboratories, and other innovative technologies (including dual 
use technologies).
    ``(2) The purpose of this program is to stimulate innovative 
technologies and reduce acquisition or lifecycle costs, address 
technical risks, improve the timeliness and thoroughness of test and 
evaluation outcomes, and rapidly insert such products directly in 
support of primarily major defense acquisition programs, but also other 
defense acquisition programs that meet critical national security 
needs.
    ``(b) Guidelines.--The Secretary shall issue guidelines for the 
operation of the program. At a minimum such guidance shall provide for 
the following:
            ``(1) The issuance of one or more broad agency 
        announcements or the use of any other competitive or merit-
        based processes by the Department of Defense for candidate 
        proposals in support of defense acquisition programs as 
        described in subsection (a).
            ``(2) The review of candidate proposals by the Department 
        of Defense and by each military department and the merit-based 
        selection of the most promising cost-effective proposals for 
        funding through contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
        transactions for the purposes of carrying out the program.
            ``(3) The total amount of funding provided to any project 
        under the program from funding provided under subsection (d) 
        shall not exceed $3,000,000, unless the Secretary, or the 
        Secretary's designee, approves a larger amount of funding for 
        the project.
            ``(4) No project shall receive more than a total of two 
        years of funding under the program from funding provided under 
        subsection (d), unless the Secretary, or the Secretary's 
        designee, approves funding for any additional year.
            ``(5) Mechanisms to facilitate transition of follow-on or 
        current projects carried out under the program into defense 
        acquisition programs, through the use of the authorities of 
        section 2302e of this title or such other authorities as may be 
        appropriate to conduct further testing, low rate production, or 
        full rate production of technologies developed under the 
        program.
            ``(6) Projects are selected using merit-based selection 
        procedures and the selection of projects is not subject to 
        undue influence by Congress or other Federal agencies.
    ``(c) Treatment Pursuant to Certain Congressional Rules.--Nothing 
in this section shall be interpreted to require or enable any official 
of the Department of Defense to provide funding under this section to 
any earmark as defined pursuant to House Rule XXI, clause 9, or any 
congressionally directed spending item as defined pursuant to Senate 
Rule XLIV, paragraph 5.
    ``(d) Funding.--Subject to the availability of appropriations for 
such purpose, the amounts authorized to be appropriated for research, 
development, test, and evaluation for a fiscal year may be used for 
such fiscal year for the program established under subsection (a).
    ``(e) Transfer Authority.--(1) The Secretary may transfer funds 
available for the program to the research, development, test, and 
evaluation accounts of a military department, defense agency, or the 
unified combatant command for special operations forces pursuant to a 
proposal, or any part of a proposal, that the Secretary determines 
would directly support the purposes of the program.
    ``(2) The transfer authority provided in this subsection is in 
addition to any other transfer authority available to the Department of 
Defense.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 139 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 2359 the following new item:

``2359a. Defense Research and Development Rapid Innovation Program.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Repeal of old provision.--Section 1073 of the Ike 
        Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 
        (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2359 note) is hereby repealed.
            (2) Repeal of old table of contents item.--The table of 
        contents in section 2(b) of such Act is amended by striking the 
        item relating to section 1073.

SEC. 212. PROCEDURES FOR RAPID REACTION TO EMERGING TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) Requirement to Establish Procedures.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Research and Engineering shall prescribe procedures for the 
designation and development of technologies that are--
            (1) urgently needed--
                    (A) to react to a technological development of an 
                adversary of the United States; or
                    (B) to respond to a significant and urgent emerging 
                technology; and
            (2) not receiving appropriate research funding or attention 
        from the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The procedures prescribed under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A process for streamlined communications between the 
        the Under Secretary, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the commanders 
        of the combatant commands, the science and technology 
        executives within each military department, and the science and 
        technology community, including--
                    (A) a process for the commanders of the combatant 
                commands and the Joint Chiefs of Staff to communicate 
                their needs to the science and technology community; 
                and
                    (B) a process for the science and technology 
                community to propose technologies that meet the needs 
                communicated by the combatant commands and the Joint 
                Chiefs of Staff.
            (2) Procedures for the development of technologies proposed 
        pursuant to paragraph (1)(B), including--
                    (A) a process for demonstrating performance of the 
                proposed technologies on a short timeline;
                    (B) a process for developing a development strategy 
                for a technology, including integration into future 
                budget years; and
                    (C) a process for making investment determinations 
                based on information obtained pursuant to subparagraphs 
                (A) and (B).

SEC. 213. ACTIVITIES ON IDENTIFICATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF ENHANCED 
              PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT AGAINST BLAST INJURY.

    (a) Activities Required.--
            (1) In general.--During fiscal years 2019 and 2020, the 
        Secretary of the Army shall carry out a set of activities to 
        identify and develop personal equipment to provide enhanced 
        protection against injuries caused by blasts in combat and 
        training.
            (2) Action with dote.--The Secretary shall undertake all 
        actions required of the Secretary under this section jointly 
        with the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation.
    (b) Activities.--
            (1) Continuous evaluation process.--For purposes of the 
        activities required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
        establish a process to continuously solicit from government, 
        industry, academia, and other appropriate entities personal 
        protective equipment that is ready for testing and evaluation 
        in order to identify and evaluate equipment or clothing that is 
        more effective in protecting members of the Armed Forces from 
        the harmful effects of blast injuries, including traumatic 
        brain injuries, and would be suitable for expedited procurement 
        and fielding.
            (2) Goals.--The goals of the activities shall include:
                    (A) Development of streamlined requirements for 
                procurement of personal protective equipment.
                    (B) Appropriate testing of personal protective 
                equipment prior to procurement and fielding.
                    (C) Development of expedited mechanisms for 
                deployment of effective personal protective equipment.
                    (D) Identification of areas of research in which 
                increased investment has the potential to improve the 
                quality of personal protective equipment and the 
                capability of the industrial base to produce such 
                equipment.
                    (E) Such other goals as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (3) Partnerships for certain assessments.--As part of the 
        activities, the Secretary shall establish research partnerships 
        with appropriate academic institutions for purposes of 
        assessing the following:
                    (A) The ability of various forms of personal 
                protective equipment to protect against common blast 
                injuries, including traumatic brain injuries.
                    (B) The value of real-time data analytics to track 
                the effectiveness of various forms of personal 
                protective equipment to protect against common blast 
                injuries, including traumatic brain injuries.
                    (C) The availability of commercial-off the-shelf 
                personal protective technology to protect against 
                traumatic brain injury resulting from blasts.
                    (D) The extent to which the equipment determined 
                through the assessment to be most effective to protect 
                against common blast injuries is readily modifiable for 
                different body types and to provide lightweight 
                material options to enhance maneuverability.
    (c) Authorities.--In carrying out activities under subsection (a), 
the Secretary may use any authority as follows:
            (1) Experimental procurement authority under section 2373 
        of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) Other transactions authority under section 2371 and 
        2371b of title 10, United States Code.
            (3) Authority to award technology prizes under section 
        2374a of title 10, United States Code.
            (4) Authority under the Defense Acquisition Challenge 
        Program under section 2359b of title 10, United States Code.
            (5) Any other authority on acquisition, technology 
        transfer, and personnel management that the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (d) Certain Treatment of Activities.--Any activities under this 
section shall be deemed to have been through the use of competitive 
procedures for the purposes of section 2304 of title 10, United States 
Code.
    (e) On-going Assessment Following Activities.--After the completion 
of activities under subsection (a), the Secretary shall, on an on-going 
basis, do the following:
            (1) Evaluate the extent to which personal protective 
        equipment identified through the activities would--
                    (A) enhance survivability of personnel from blasts 
                in combat and training; and
                    (B) enhance prevention of brain damage, and 
                reduction of any resultant chronic brain dysfunction, 
                from blasts in combat and training.
            (2) In the case of personal protective equipment so 
        identified that would provide enhancements as described in 
        paragraph (1), estimate the costs that would be incurred to 
        procure such enhanced personal protective equipment, and 
        develop a schedule for the procurement of such equipment.
            (3) Estimate the potential health care cost savings that 
        would occur from expanded use of personal protective equipment 
        described in paragraph (2).
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than December 1, 2019, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of 
        the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
        activities under subsection (a) as of the date of the report.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than December 1, 2020, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the committees of Congress referred 
        to in paragraph (1) a report on the activities under this 
        section, including the following:
                    (A) The results of the evaluation under subsection 
                (e)(1).
                    (B) The estimate of costs and schedules under 
                subsection (e)(2).
    (g) Funding.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2019 for the Department of Defense by section 201, up to 
$10,000,000 may be available to carry out this section.

SEC. 214. HUMAN FACTORS MODELING AND SIMULATION ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Activities Required.--The Secretary of the Army shall develop 
and provide for the carrying out of human factors modeling and 
simulation activities designed to do the following:
            (1) Provide warfighters and civilians with personalized 
        assessment, education, and training tools.
            (2) Identify and implement effective ways to interface and 
        team warfighters with machines.
            (3) Result in the use of intelligent, adaptive augmentation 
        to enhance decision making.
            (4) Result in the development of techniques, technologies, 
        and practices to mitigate critical stressors that impede 
        warfighter and civilian protection, sustainment, and 
        performance.
    (b) Purpose.--The overall purpose of the activities shall be to 
accelerate research and development that enhances capabilities for 
human performance, human-systems integration, and training for the 
warfighter.
    (c) Participants in Activities.--Participants in the activities may 
include the following:
            (1) Elements of the Department of Defense engaged in 
        science and technology activities.
            (2) Program Executive Offices of the Department.
            (3) Academia.
            (4) The private sector.
            (5) Such other participants as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (d) Execution.--The Secretary shall carry out this section through 
the Army Futures Command, the Army Research Institute, or such other 
component of the Department of the Army as the Secretary considers 
appropriate.

SEC. 215. EXPANSION OF MISSION AREAS SUPPORTED BY MECHANISMS FOR 
              EXPEDITED ACCESS TO TECHNICAL TALENT AND EXPERTISE AT 
              ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS.

    Section 217(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (23) as paragraph (27); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (22) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(23) Space.
            ``(24) Infrastructure resilience.
            ``(25) Photonics.
            ``(26) Autonomy.''.

SEC. 216. ADVANCED MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Designation.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment and the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering shall jointly, in coordination with Secretaries of the 
military departments, establish not less than three activities to 
demonstrate advanced manufacturing techniques and capabilities at 
depot-level activities or military arsenal facilities of the military 
departments.
    (b) Purposes.--The activities established pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall--
            (1) support efforts to implement advanced manufacturing 
        techniques and capabilities;
            (2) identify improvements to sustainment methods for 
        component parts and other logistics needs;
            (3) identify and implement appropriate information security 
        protections to ensure security of advanced manufacturing;
            (4) aid in the procurement of advanced manufacturing 
        equipment and support services; and
            (5) enhance partnerships between the defense industrial 
        base and Department of Defense laboratories, academic 
        institutions, and industry.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements and Partnerships.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretaries may enter into a 
        cooperative agreement and use public-private and public-public 
        partnerships to facilitate development of advanced 
        manufacturing techniques in support of the defense industrial 
        base.
            (2) Requirements.--A cooperative agreement entered into 
        under paragraph (1) and a partnership used under such paragraph 
        shall facilitate--
                    (A) development and implementation of advanced 
                manufacturing techniques and capabilities;
                    (B) appropriate sharing of information in the 
                adaptation of advanced manufacturing, including 
                technical data rights; and
                    (C) implementation of appropriate information 
                security protections into advanced manufacturing tools 
                and techniques.
    (d) Authorities.--In carrying out this section, the Under 
Secretaries may use the following authorities:
            (1) Section 2196 of title 10, United States Code, relating 
        to the Manufacturing Engineering Education Program.
            (2) Section 2368 of such title, relating to centers for 
        science, technology, and engineering partnership.
            (3) Section 2374a of such title, relating to prizes for 
        advanced technology achievements.
            (4) Section 2474 of such title, relating to centers of 
        industrial and technical excellence.
            (5) Section 2521 of such title, relating to the 
        Manufacturing Technology Program.
            (6) Section 12 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology 
        Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a) and section 6305 of 
        title 31, United States Code, relating to cooperative research 
        and development agreements.
            (7) Such other authorities as the Under Secretaries 
        considers appropriate.

SEC. 217. NATIONAL SECURITY INNOVATION ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Establishment.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering shall establish activities to develop interaction between 
the Department of Defense and the commercial technology industry and 
academia with regard to emerging hardware products and technologies 
with national security applications.
    (b) Elements.--The activities required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) Informing and encouraging private investment in 
        specific hardware technologies of interest to future defense 
        technology needs with unique national security applications.
            (2) Funding research and technology development in critical 
        hardware-based defense sectors, specifically 
        microelectromechanical systems, processing components, 
        micromachinery, and materials science that private industry has 
        not supported sufficiently to meet rapidly emerging national 
        security needs.
            (3) Developing and executing policies and actions to deter 
        strategic acquisition of industrial and technical capabilities 
        in the private sector by foreign entities that could 
        potentially exclude companies from participating in the 
        Department of Defense technology and industrial base.
            (4) Identifying promising emerging technology in industry 
        and academia for the Department of Defense for potential 
        support or research and development cooperation.
    (c) Transfer of Personnel and Resources.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Under 
        Secretary may transfer such personnel, resources, and 
        authorities as the Under Secretary considers appropriate to 
        carry out the activities established under subsection (a) from 
        other elements of the Department.
            (2) Certification.--The Under Secretary may only make a 
        transfer of personnel, resources, or authorities under 
        paragraph (1) upon certification by the Under Secretary that 
        the activities established under paragraph (a) can attract 
        sufficient private sector investment, has personnel with 
        sufficient technical and management expertise, and has 
        identified relevant technologies and systems for potential 
        investment in order to carry out the activities established 
        under subsection (a), independent of further government funding 
        beyond this authorization.
    (d) Establishment of Nonprofit Entity.--The Under Secretary may 
establish or fund a nonprofit entity to carry out the program 
activities under subsection (a).
    (e) Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to 
        the congressional defense committees a detailed plan to carry 
        out this section.
            (2) Elements.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of the additional authorities 
                needed to carry out the activities set forth in 
                subsection (b).
                    (B) Plans for transfers under subsection (c), 
                including plans for private fund-matching and 
                investment mechanisms, oversight, treatment of rights 
                relating to technical data developed, and relevant 
                dates and goals of such transfers.
                    (C) Plans for attracting the participation of the 
                commercial technology industry and academia and how 
                those plans fit into the current Department of Defense 
                research and engineering enterprise.
    (f) Authorities.--In carrying out this section, the Under Secretary 
may use the following authorities:
            (1) Section 1711 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91), relating to a pilot 
        program on strengthening manufacturing in the defense 
        industrial base.
            (2) Section 1599g of title 10 of the United States Code, 
        relating to public-private talent exchanges.
            (3) Section 2368 of such title, relating to Centers for 
        Science, Technology, and Engineering Partnerships.
            (4) Section 2374a of such title, relating to prizes for 
        advanced technology achievements.
            (5) Section 2474 of such title, relating to Centers of 
        Industrial and Technical Excellence.
            (6) Section 2521 of such title, relating to the 
        Manufacturing Technology Program.
            (7) Subchapter VI of chapter 33 of title 5, United States 
        Code, relating to assignments to and from States.
            (8) Chapter 47 of such title, relating to personnel 
        research programs and demonstration projects.
            (9) Section 12 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology 
        Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a) and section 6305 of 
        title 31, United States Code, relating to cooperative research 
        and development agreements.
            (10) Such other authorities as the Under Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
    (g) Funding.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2019 for the Department of Defense by section 201 and 
subject to the availability of appropriations, up to $150,000,000 may 
be available to carry out this section.

SEC. 218. PARTNERSHIP INTERMEDIARIES FOR PROMOTION OF DEFENSE RESEARCH 
              AND EDUCATION.

    Section 2368 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections 
        (g) and (h), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection (f):
    ``(f) Use of Partnership Intermediaries to Promote Defense Research 
and Education.--(1) Subject to the approval of the Secretary or the 
head of the another department or agency of the Federal Government 
concerned, the Director of a Center may enter into a contract, 
memorandum of understanding or other transition with a partnership 
intermediary that provides for the partnership intermediary to perform 
services for the Department of Defense that increase the likelihood of 
success in the conduct of cooperative or joint activities of the Center 
with industry or academic institutions.
    ``(2) In this subsection, the term `partnership intermediary' means 
an agency of a State or local government, or a nonprofit entity owned 
in whole or in part by, chartered by, funded in whole or in part by, or 
operated in whole or in part by or on behalf of a State or local 
government, that assists, counsels, advises, evaluates, or otherwise 
cooperates with industry or academic institutions that need or can make 
demonstrably productive use of technology-related assistance from a 
Center.''.

SEC. 219. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR SURFACE NAVY LASER WEAPON 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be used to exceed a 
procurement quantity of one Surface Navy Laser Weapon System, also 
known as the High Energy Laser and Integrated Optical-dazzler with 
Surveillance (HELIOS), per fiscal year, unless the Secretary of the 
Navy submits to the congressional defense committees a report on such 
system with the elements set forth in subsection (b).
    (b) Elements.--The elements set forth in this subsection are, with 
respect to the system described in subsection (a), the following:
            (1) A document setting forth the requirements for the 
        system, including desired performance characteristics.
            (2) An acquisition plan that includes the following:
                    (A) A program schedule to accomplish design 
                completion, technology maturation, risk reduction, and 
                other activities, including dates of key design reviews 
                (such as Preliminary Design Review and Critical Design 
                Review) and program initiation decision (such as 
                Milestone B) if applicable.
                    (B) A contracting strategy, including requests for 
                proposals, the extent to which contracts will be 
                competitively awarded, option years, option quantities, 
                option prices, and ceiling prices.
                    (C) The fiscal years of procurement and delivery 
                for each engineering development model, prototype, or 
                similar unit planned to be acquired.
                    (D) A justification for the fiscal years of 
                procurement and delivery for each engineering 
                development model, prototype, or similar unit planned 
                to be acquired.
            (3) A test plan and schedule sufficient to achieve 
        operational effectiveness and operational suitability 
        determinations (such as Early Operational Capability and 
        Initial Operational Capability) related to the requirements set 
        forth in paragraph (1).
            (4) Associated funding and item quantities, disaggregated 
        by fiscal year and appropriation, requested in the Fiscal Year 
        2019 Future Years Defense Program.
            (5) An estimate of the acquisition costs, including the 
        total costs for procurement, research, development, test, and 
        evaluation.

SEC. 220. EXPANSION OF COORDINATION REQUIREMENT FOR SUPPORT FOR 
              NATIONAL SECURITY INNOVATION AND ENTREPRENEURIAL 
              EDUCATION.

    Section 225(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(16) The National Security Technology Accelerator.''.

SEC. 221. LIMITATION ON FUNDING FOR AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT VEHICLE 1.2.

    None of the funds authorized by this Act or otherwise made 
available for the Marine Corps for fiscal year 2019 for the development 
of Amphibious Combat Vehicle 1.2 may be obligated or expended until the 
Secretary of Defense has submitted to the congressional defense 
committees--
            (1) the report required under subsection (b) of section 
        1041; or
            (2) the information required under paragraph (5) of such 
        subsection.

SEC. 222. DEFENSE QUANTUM INFORMATION SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH 
              AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a 
quantum information science and technology research and development 
program.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the program required by subsection 
(a) are as follows:
            (1) To ensure global superiority of the United States in 
        quantum information science necessary for meeting national 
        security requirements.
            (2) To coordinate all quantum information science and 
        technology research and development within the Department of 
        Defense and to provide for interagency cooperation and 
        collaboration on quantum information science and technology 
        research and development between the Department of Defense and 
        other departments and agencies of the United States and 
        appropriate private sector entities that are involved in 
        quantum information science and technology research and 
        development.
            (3) To develop and manage a portfolio of fundamental and 
        applied quantum information science and technology and 
        engineering research initiatives that is stable, consistent, 
        and balanced across scientific disciplines.
            (4) To accelerate the transition and deployment of 
        technologies and concepts derived from quantum information 
        science and technology research and development into the Armed 
        Forces, and to establish policies, procedures, and standards 
        for measuring the success of such efforts.
            (5) To collect, synthesize, and disseminate critical 
        information on quantum information science and technology 
        research and development.
            (6) To establish and support appropriate research, 
        innovation, and industrial base, including facilities and 
        infrastructure, to support the needs of Department of Defense 
        missions and systems related to quantum information science and 
        technology.
    (c) Administration.--In carrying out the program required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall act through the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Research and Engineering, who shall supervise the planning, 
management, and coordination of the program. The Under Secretary, in 
consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments and the 
heads of participating Defense Agencies and other departments and 
agencies of the United States, shall--
            (1) prescribe a set of long-term challenges and a set of 
        specific technical goals for the program, including--
                    (A) optimization of analysis of national security 
                data sets;
                    (B) design of new materials and molecular 
                functions;
                    (C) secure communications and cryptography;
                    (D) quantum sensing and metrology;
                    (E) development of mathematics to support defense 
                missions related to quantum-based encryption 
                techniques; and
                    (F) processing and manufacturing of low-cost, 
                robust, and reliable quantum information science and 
                technology-enabled devices and systems;
            (2) develop a coordinated and integrated research and 
        investment plan for meeting the near-, mid-, and long-term 
        challenges with definitive milestones while achieving the 
        specific technical goals that builds upon the Department's 
        increased investment in quantum information science and 
        technology research and development, commercial sector and 
        global investments, and other United States Government 
        investments in the quantum sciences;
            (3) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, develop and continuously update guidance, 
        including classification and data management plans for defense-
        related quantum information science and technology activities, 
        and policies for control of personnel participating on such 
        activities to minimize the effects of loss of intellectual 
        property in basic and applied quantum science and information 
        considered sensitive to the leadership of the United States in 
        the field of quantum computing; and
            (4) develop memoranda of agreement, joint funding 
        agreements, and other cooperative arrangements necessary for 
        meeting the long-term challenges and achieving the specific 
        technical goals.
    (d) Report.--Not later than December 31, 2020, the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Research and Engineering shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the program, in both 
classified and unclassified format.

SEC. 223. JOINT DIRECTED ENERGY TEST ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Test Activities.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
and Engineering shall develop, establish, and coordinate directed 
energy testing activities adequate to ensure the achievement by the 
Department of Defense of goals of the Department for developing and 
deploying directed energy systems to match national security needs.
    (b) Elements.--The activity established under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) The High Energy Laser System Test Facility of the Army 
        Test and Evaluation Command.
            (2) Such other test resources and activities as the Under 
        Secretary may designate for purposes of this section.
    (c) Designation.--The test activities established under subsection 
(a) shall be considered part of the Major Range and Test Facility Base 
(as defined in 196(i) of title 10, United States Code).
    (d) Direction and Control.--The conduct of testing activities under 
subsection (a) shall be subject to authority, direction, and control of 
the Under Secretary in the Under Secretary's capacity as the official 
with principal responsibility for the development and demonstration of 
directed energy weapons for the Department pursuant to section 
219(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2017 (10 U.S.C. 2431 note).
    (e) Prioritization of Effort.--In developing and coordinating 
testing activities pursuant to subsection (a), the Under Secretary 
shall prioritize efforts consistent with the following:
            (1) Paragraphs (2) through (5) of section 219(a) of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (10 
        U.S.C. 2431 note).
            (2) Enabling the standardized collection and evaluation of 
        testing data to establish testing references and benchmarks.
            (3) Concentrating sufficient personnel expertise of 
        directed energy weapon systems in order to validate the 
        effectiveness of new weapon systems against a variety of 
        targets.
            (4) Consolidating modern state-of-the-art testing 
        infrastructure including telemetry, sensors, and optics to 
        support advanced technology testing and evaluation.
            (5) Formulating a joint lethality or vulnerability 
        information repository that can be accessed by any of the 
        military departments of Defense Agencies, similar to a Joint 
        Munitions Effectiveness Manuals (JMEMs).
            (6) Reducing duplication of directed energy weapon testing.
            (7) Ensuring that an adequate workforce and adequate 
        testing facilities are maintained to support missions of the 
        Department of Defense.

SEC. 224. REQUIREMENT FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF ARRANGEMENTS FOR EXPEDITED 
              ACCESS TO TECHNICAL TALENT AND EXPERTISE AT ACADEMIC 
              INSTITUTIONS TO SUPPORT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MISSIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 217 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is 
amended by striking ``may'' and inserting ``shall''.
    (b) Extension.--Subsection (f) of such section is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting ``September 30, 2022''.

SEC. 225. AUTHORITY FOR JOINT DIRECTED ENERGY TRANSITION OFFICE TO 
              CONDUCT RESEARCH RELATING TO HIGH POWERED MICROWAVE 
              CAPABILITIES.

    Section 219(b)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 2431 note) is amended 
by inserting ``, including high-powered microwaves,'' after ``energy 
systems and technologies''.

SEC. 226. JOINT ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND 
              TRANSITION ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
        set of activities within the Department of Defense to 
        coordinate the efforts of the Department to develop, mature, 
        and transition artificial intelligence technologies into 
        operational use.
            (2) Emphasis.--The set of activities established under 
        paragraph (1) shall apply artificial intelligence and machine 
        learning solutions to operational problems and coordinate 
        activities involving artificial intelligence and artificial 
        intelligence enabled capabilities within the Department.
    (b) Designation.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall designate a 
senior official of the Department of Defense with principal 
responsibility for the coordination of activities relating to the 
development and demonstration of artificial intelligence and machine 
learning for the Department.
    (c) Duties.--The duties of the official designated under subsection 
(b) shall include the following:
            (1) Strategic plan.--Developing a detailed strategic plan 
        to develop, mature, adopt, and transition artificial 
        intelligence technologies into operational use. Such plan shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A strategic roadmap for the identification and 
                coordination of the development and fielding of 
                artificial intelligence technologies and key enabling 
                capabilities.
                    (B) The continuous evaluation and adaptation of 
                relevant artificial intelligence capabilities developed 
                both inside the Department and in other organizations 
                for military missions.
            (2) Acceleration of development and fielding of artificial 
        intelligence.--To the degree practicable, the designated 
        official shall--
                    (A) use the flexibility of regulations, personnel, 
                or other relevant policies of the Department to 
                accelerate the development and fielding of artificial 
                intelligence capabilities;
                    (B) ensure engagement with defense and private 
                industries, research universities, and unaffiliated, 
                nonprofit research institutions;
                    (C) provide technical advice and support to 
                entities in the Department of Defense and the military 
                departments to optimize the use of artificial 
                intelligence and machine learning technologies to meet 
                Department missions;
                    (D) support the development of requirements for 
                artificial intelligence capabilities that address the 
                highest priority capability gaps of the Department and 
                technical feasibility;
                    (E) develop and support capabilities for technical 
                analysis and assessment of threat capabilities based on 
                artificial intelligence;
                    (F) ensure that the Department has appropriate 
                workforce and capabilities at laboratories, test 
                ranges, and within the organic defense industrial base 
                to support the artificial intelligence capabilities and 
                requirements of the Department;
                    (G) develop classification guidance for all 
                artificial intelligence related activities of the 
                Department;
                    (H) work with appropriate officials to develop 
                appropriate ethical, legal, and other policies for the 
                Department governing the development and use of 
                artificial intelligence enabled systems and 
                technologies in operational situations; and
                    (I) ensure--
                            (i) that artificial intelligence programs 
                        of each military department and of the Defense 
                        Agencies are consistent with the priorities 
                        identified under this section; and
                            (ii) appropriate coordination of artificial 
                        intelligence activities of the Department with 
                        interagency, industry, and international 
                        efforts relating to artificial intelligence, 
                        including relevant participation in standards 
                        setting bodies.
    (d) Access to Information.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
that the official designated under subsection (b) has access to such 
information on programs and activities of the military departments and 
other Defense Agencies as the Secretary considers appropriate to carry 
out the coordination described in subsection (b) and the duties set 
forth in subsection (c).
    (e) Study on Artificial Intelligence Topics.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the official designated under 
        subsection (b) shall--
                    (A) complete a study on the future of artificial 
                intelligence in the context of the missions of the 
                Department; and
                    (B) submit to the congressional defense committees 
                a report on the findings of the designated official 
                with respect to the study completed under subparagraph 
                (A).
            (2) Consultation with experts.--In conducting the study 
        required by paragraph (1)(A), the designated official shall 
        consult with experts within the Department, other Federal 
        agencies, academia, and the commercial sector, as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
            (3) Elements.--The study required by paragraph (1)(A) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A comprehensive and national-level review of 
                advances in artificial intelligence and machine 
                learning, and associated technologies relevant to the 
                needs of the Department and the Armed Forces.
                    (B) Near-term actionable recommendations to the 
                Secretary, including ways to more effectively organize 
                the Department for artificial intelligence and most 
                effectively leverage academic and commercial progress 
                in these technologies.
                    (C) Recommendations for engagement by the 
                Department with relevant agencies that will be involved 
                with artificial intelligence in the future.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

SEC. 231. REPORT ON COMPARATIVE CAPABILITIES OF ADVERSARIES IN KEY 
              TECHNOLOGY AREAS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report that sets forth a direct comparison 
between the capabilities of the United States in emerging technology 
areas (such as hypersonics, artificial intelligence, quantum 
information science, and directed energy weapons) and the capabilities 
of adversaries of the United States in such areas.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include, 
for each technology covered by such report, the following:
            (1) An evaluation of spending by the United States and 
        adversaries on such technology.
            (2) An evaluation of the quantity and quality of research 
        on such technology.
            (3) An evaluation of the test infrastructure and workforce 
        supporting such technology.
            (4) An assessment of the technological progress of the 
        United States and adversaries on such technology.
            (5) Descriptions of timelines for operational deployment of 
        such technology.
            (6) An assessment of the intent or willingness of 
        adversaries to use such technology.
    (c) Coordination.--The Director shall prepare the report in 
coordination with other appropriate officials of the intelligence 
community and with such other partners in the technology areas covered 
by the report as the Director considers appropriate.

SEC. 232. REPORT ON ACTIVE PROTECTION SYSTEMS FOR ARMORED COMBAT AND 
              TACTICAL VEHICLES.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on technologies related to active protection 
systems (APS) for armored combat and tactical vehicles.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) With respect to the active protection systems that the 
        Army has recently tested on the M1A2 Abrams, the M2A3 Bradley, 
        and the STRYKER, the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the effectiveness of such 
                systems.
                    (B) Plans of the Secretary to further test such 
                systems.
                    (C) Proposals for future development of such 
                systems.
                    (D) A timeline for fielding such systems.
            (2) Plans for how the Army will incorporate active 
        protection systems into new armored combat and tactical vehicle 
        designs, such as Mobile Protection Firepower (MPF), Armored 
        Multi-Purpose Vehicle (AMPV), and Next Generation Combat 
        Vehicle (NGCV).

SEC. 233. NEXT GENERATION COMBAT VEHICLE.

    (a) Prototype.--The Secretary of the Army shall take appropriate 
actions to ensure that the Tank Automotive, Research, Development, and 
Engineering Center (TARDEC) of the Army is provided the resources, 
including funds and acquisition authorities, necessary to build a 
prototype for the Next Generation Combat Vehicle (NGCV).
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the development of the Next 
        Generation Combat Vehicle.
            (2) Analysis.--
                    (A) In general.--The report required by paragraph 
                (1) shall include a thorough analysis of the 
                requirements of the Next Generation Combat Vehicle.
                    (B) Relevance to national defense strategy.--In 
                carrying out subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                ensure that the requirements are relevant to the most 
                recently published National Defense Strategy.
                    (C) Threats and terrain.--The Secretary shall 
                ensure that the analysis includes consideration of 
                threats and terrain.
                    (D) Component technologies.--The Secretary shall 
                ensure that the analysis includes consideration of the 
                latest enabling component technologies that have the 
                potential to dramatically change basic combat vehicle 
                design and improve lethality, protection, mobility, 
                range, and sustainment.
    (c) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2019 by section 201 and available for research, 
development, testing, and evaluation, Army, for the Next Generation 
Combat Vehicle, not more than 50 percent may be obligated or expended 
until the Secretary submits the report required by subsection (b).

SEC. 234. REPORT ON THE FUTURE OF THE DEFENSE RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING 
              ENTERPRISE.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth 
recommendations on the future of the defense research and engineering 
enterprise, including such recommendations for legislative or 
administrative action as the Under Secretary considers appropriate in 
light of the anticipated future of the defense research and engineering 
enterprise.
    (b) Focus.--The recommendations under subsection (a) shall focus on 
enabling the success of the defense research and engineering enterprise 
in the current environment of strategic competition.
    (c) Defense Research and Engineering Enterprise.--For purposes of 
subsection (a), the defense research and engineering enterprise shall 
consist of the following:
            (1) The science and technology elements of the military 
        departments.
            (2) The Department of Defense laboratories
            (3) The test ranges and facilities of the Department.
            (4) The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).
            (5) The Defense Innovation Unit Experimental (DIU(x)).
            (6) The Strategic Capabilities Office of the Department.
            (7) The Small Business Innovation Research Program of the 
        Department.
            (8) Such other elements, offices, programs, and activities 
        of the Department as the Under Secretary considers appropriate 
        for purposes of the this section.
    (d) Particular Recommendations.--The recommendations under 
subsection (a) shall include recommendations on the following:
            (1) Portfolio management and coordination of research and 
        development activities across the military departments and the 
        defense research and engineering enterprise, including 
        management and activities across the enterprise.
            (2) Workforce management, recruitment, retention, and 
        shaping.
            (3) Facilities and research and test infrastructure.
            (4) Relationships with academia, the acquisition community, 
        the operational community, and the commercial sector.
            (5) Governance.
    (e) Comparisons.--For purposes of making recommendations under 
subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall conduct a comparison of the 
defense research and engineering enterprise of the United States, 
namely processes, test infrastructure, and workforce, with the defense 
research and engineering enterprises of other countries and the private 
sector.
    (f) Consultation and Comments.--In making recommendations under 
subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall consult with and seek 
comments from groups and entities relevant to the recommendations, such 
as the military departments, the combatant commands, the Defense 
Innovation Board, the Defense Science Board, the Defense Business 
Board, the federally funded research and development centers (FFRDCs), 
and commercial partners of the Department of Defense (including small 
business concerns).

SEC. 235. MODIFICATION OF REPORTS ON MECHANISMS TO PROVIDE FUNDS TO 
              DEFENSE LABORATORIES FOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF 
              TECHNOLOGIES FOR MILITARY MISSIONS.

    Subsection (c) of section 2363 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Release and Dissemination of Information on Contributions 
From Use of Authority to Military Missions.--
            ``(1) Collection of information.--The Secretary shall 
        establish and maintain mechanisms for the continuous collection 
        of information on achievements, best practices identified, 
        lessons learned, and challenges arising in the exercise of the 
        authority in this section.
            ``(2) Release of information.--The Secretary shall 
        establish and maintain mechanisms as follows:
                    ``(A) Mechanisms for the release to the public of 
                information on achievements and best practices 
                described in paragraph (1) in unclassified form.
                    ``(B) Mechanisms for dissemination to appropriate 
                civilian and military officials of information on 
                achievements and best practices described in paragraph 
                (1) in classified form.''.

SEC. 236. REPORT ON MOBILE PROTECTED FIREPOWER AND FUTURE VERTICAL 
              LIFT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the 
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives a report on the requirements 
of the Army for Mobile Protected Firepower (MPF) and Future Vertical 
Lift (FVL).
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) An explanation of how Mobile Protected Firepower and 
        Future Vertical Lift could survive against the effects of anti-
        armor and anti-aircraft networks established within anti-
        access, area-denial defenses.
            (2) An explanation of how Mobile Protected Firepower and 
        Future Vertical Lift would improve offensive overmatch against 
        a peer adversary.
            (3) Details regarding the total number of Mobile Protected 
        Firepower and Future Vertical Lift systems needed by the Army.
            (4) An explanation of how these systems will be 
        logistically supported within light formations.
            (5) Plans to integrate active protection systems into the 
        designs of such systems.

SEC. 237. IMPROVEMENT OF THE AIR FORCE SUPPLY CHAIN.

    (a) In General.--The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for 
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics may use funds described in 
subsection (b) as follows:
            (1) For nontraditional technologies and sustainment 
        practices (such as additive manufacturing, artificial 
        intelligence, predictive maintenance, nad other software-
        intensive and software-defined capabilities) to--
                    (A) increase the availability of aircraft to the 
                Air Force; and
                    (B) decrease backlogs and lead times for the 
                production of parts for such aircraft.
            (2) To advance the qualification, certification, and 
        integration of additive manufacturing into the Air Force supply 
        chain.
            (3) To otherwise identify and reduce supply chain risk for 
        the Air Force.
            (4) To define workforce development requirements and 
        training for personnel who implement and support additive 
        manufacturing for the Air Force at the warfighter, end-item 
        designer and equipment operator, and acquisition officer 
        levels.
    (b) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2019 by section 201 for research, development, test, and 
evaluation for the Air Force and available for Tech Transition Program 
(Program Element (0604858F)), up to $42,800,000 may be available as 
described in subsection (a).

SEC. 238. REVIEW OF GUIDANCE ON BLAST EXPOSURE DURING TRAINING.

    (a) Initial Review.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall review the firing 
limits for heavy weapons during training exercises.
    (b) Elements.--The review required by subsection (a) shall take 
into account current data and evidence on the cognitive effects of 
blast exposure and shall include consideration of the following:
            (1) The impact of exposure over multiple successive days of 
        training.
            (2) The impact of multiple types of heavy weapons being 
        fired in close succession.
            (3) The feasibility of cumulative annual or lifetime 
        exposure limits.
            (4) The minimum safe distance for observers and 
        instructors.
    (c) Updated Training Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the completion of the review under subsection (a), each 
Secretary of a military department shall update any relevant training 
guidance to account for the conclusions of the review.
    (d) Updated Review.--
            (1) In general.--Not less frequently than once every two 
        years after the initial review conducted under subsection (a), 
        the Secretary of Defense shall conduct an updated review under 
        such subsection, including consideration of the matters set 
        forth under subsection (b), and update training guidance under 
        subsection (c).
            (2) Consideration of new research and evidence.--Each 
        updated review conducted under paragraph (1) shall take into 
        account new research and evidence that has emerged since the 
        previous review.
    (e) Briefing Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall brief the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives on a summary of the results of the initial review under 
subsection (a), each updated review conducted under subsection (d), and 
any updates to training guidance and procedures resulting from any such 
review or updated review.

SEC. 239. LIST OF TECHNOLOGIES AND MANUFACTURING CAPABILITIES CRITICAL 
              TO ARMED FORCES.

    (a) List Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a list 
of technologies and manufacturing capabilities critical to the Armed 
Forces.
    (b) Primary Emphasis.--In developing such list, primary emphasis 
shall be given to--
            (1) research, development, design, and manufacturing 
        expertise;
            (2) research, development, design, and manufacturing 
        equipment and unique facilities;
            (3) goods and services associated with or enabled by 
        research, development, operation, application, manufacturing, 
        or maintenance expertise, which are not possessed by countries 
        to which exports are controlled and which, if exported or 
        otherwise transferred, would permit a significant advance in 
        the military capabilities of any such country; and
            (4) emerging technology areas supportive of military 
        requirements and strategies.
    (c) Specificity.--The shall ensure that the list required by 
subsection (a) is sufficiently specific to guide the recommendations of 
the Secretary in any interagency determinations on exercising export 
licensing, technology transfer, or foreign investment.
    (d) Publication.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2019, the 
        Secretary shall publish the list required by subsection (a) and 
        continuously update such list thereafter as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
            (2) Form.--The list published under paragraph (1) shall be 
        published in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 240. REPORT ON REQUIRING ACCESS TO DIGITAL TECHNICAL DATA IN 
              FUTURE ACQUISITIONS OF COMBAT, COMBAT SERVICE, AND COMBAT 
              SUPPORT SYSTEMS.

    Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the feasibility and advisability of requiring 
access to digital technical data in all future acquisitions by the 
Department of Defense of combat, combat service, and combat support 
systems, including front-end negotiations for such access. Such report 
shall include a digital data standard for technical data for use by 
equipment manufacturers and the Department with regard to three-
dimensional printed parts.

SEC. 241. COMPETITIVE ACQUISITION STRATEGY FOR BRADLEY FIGHTING VEHICLE 
              TRANSMISSION REPLACEMENT.

    (a) Plan Required.--The Secretary of the Army shall develop a 
strategy to competitively procure a new transmission for the Bradley 
Fighting Vehicle family of vehicles.
    (b) Additional Strategy Requirements.--The plan required by 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
            (1) An analysis of the potential cost savings and 
        performance improvements associated with developing or 
        procuring a new transmission common to the Bradley Fighting 
        Vehicle family of vehicles, including the Armored Multipurpose 
        Vehicle and the Paladin Integrated Management artillery system.
            (2) A plan to use full and open competition to the maximum 
        extent practicable.
    (c) Timeline.--Not later than February 15, 2019, the Secretary of 
the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees the 
strategy developed under subsection (a).
    (d) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal year 2019 by this Act for Weapons and Tracked Combat 
Vehicles, Army, may be obligated or expended to procure a Bradley 
Fighting Vehicle replacement transmission until the date that is 30 
days after the date on which the Secretary of the Army submits to the 
congressional defense committees the plan required by subsection (a).

SEC. 242. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF ELECTRONIC WARFARE PLANS AND 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to 
        enter into an agreement with the private scientific advisory 
        group known as ``JASON'' to perform the services covered by 
        this section.
            (2) Timing.--The Secretary shall seek to enter into the 
        agreement described in paragraph (1) not later than 120 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Independent Assessment.--Under an agreement between the 
Secretary and JASON under this section, JASON shall--
            (1) assess the strategies, programs, order of battle, and 
        doctrine of the United States related to the electronic warfare 
        mission area and electromagnetic spectrum operations;
            (2) assess the strategies, programs, order of battle, and 
        doctrine of potential adversaries, such as China, Iran, and the 
        Russian Federation, related to the same;
            (3) develop recommendations for improvements to the 
        strategies, programs, and doctrine of the United States in 
        order to enable the United States to achieve and maintain 
        superiority in the electromagnetic spectrum in future 
        conflicts; and
            (4) develop recommendations for the Secretary, Congress, 
        and such other Federal entities as JASON considers appropriate, 
        including recommendations for--
                    (A) closing technical, policy, or resource gaps;
                    (B) improving cooperation and appropriate 
                integration among Federal entities;
                    (C) improving cooperation between the United States 
                and other countries and international organizations; 
                and
                    (D) such other important matters identified by 
                JASON that are directly relevant to the strategies of 
                the United States described in paragraph (3).
    (c) Liaisons.--The Secretary shall appoint appropriate liaisons to 
JASON to support the timely conduct of the services covered by this 
section.
    (d) Materials.--The Secretary shall provide access to JASON to 
materials relevant to the services covered by this section, consistent 
with the protection of sources and methods and other critically 
sensitive information.
    (e) Clearances.--The Secretary shall ensure that appropriate 
members and staff of JASON have the necessary clearances, obtained in 
an expedited manner, to conduct the services covered by this section.
    (f) Report.--Not later than October 1, 2019, the Secretary shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on--
            (1) the findings of JASON with respect to the assessments 
        carried out under subsection (b); and
            (2) the recommendations developed by JASON pursuant to such 
        subsection.
    (g) Alternate Contract Scientific Organization.--
            (1) In general.--If the Secretary is unable within the 
        period prescribed in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) to enter 
        into an agreement described in paragraph (1) of such subsection 
        with JASON on terms acceptable to the Secretary, the Secretary 
        shall seek to enter into such agreement with another 
        appropriate scientific organization that--
                    (A) is not part of the Government; and
                    (B) has expertise and objectivity comparable to 
                that of JASON.
            (2) Treatment.--If the Secretary enters into an agreement 
        with another organization as described in paragraph (1), any 
        reference in this section to JASON shall be treated as a 
        reference to the other organization.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4301.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

SEC. 311. FURTHER IMPROVEMENTS TO ENERGY SECURITY AND RESILIENCE.

    (a) Energy Policy Authority.--Section 2911(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as 
        paragraphs (3), (4), and (5), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting before paragraph (3), as so redesignated, 
        the following new paragraphs:
            ``(1) establish metrics and standards for the assessment of 
        energy resilience;
            ``(2) require the Secretary of a military department to 
        perform mission assurance and readiness assessments of energy 
        power systems for mission critical assets and supporting 
        infrastructure, applying uniform mission standards established 
        by the Secretary of Defense;''.
    (b) Reporting on Energy Security and Resilience Goals.--Section 
2911(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense shall include the energy security 
and resilience goals of the Department of Defense in the installation 
energy report submitted under section 2925(a) of this title for fiscal 
year 2018 and every fiscal year thereafter. In the development of 
energy security and resilience goals, the Department of Defense shall 
conform with the definitions of energy security and resilience under 
this title. The report shall include the amount of critical energy 
load, together with the level of availability and reliability by fiscal 
year the Department of Defense deems necessary to achieve energy 
security and resilience.''.
    (c) Reporting on Installations Energy Management, Energy 
Resilience, and Mission Assurance.--Section 2925(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``, including progress on energy 
        resilience at military installations according to metrics 
        developed by the Secretary'' after ``under section 2911 of this 
        title'';
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``the mission 
        requirements associated with disruption tolerances based on 
        risk to mission'' and inserting ``the downtimes (in minutes or 
        hours) these missions can afford based on their mission 
        requirements and risk tolerances'';
            (3) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``(including critical 
        energy loads in megawatts and the associated downtime 
        tolerances for critical energy loads)'' after ``energy 
        requirements and critical energy requirements'';
            (4) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (7); and
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(5) A list of energy resilience projects awarded by the 
        Department of Defense by military department and military 
        installation, whether appropriated or alternative financed for 
        the reporting fiscal year, including project description, award 
        date, the critical energy requirements serviced (including 
        critical energy loads in megawatts), expected reliability of 
        the project (as indicated in the awarded contract), life cycle 
        costs, savings to investment, fuel type, and the type of 
        appropriation or alternative financing used.
            ``(6) A list of energy resilience projects planned by the 
        Department of Defense by military department and military 
        installation, whether appropriated or alternative financed for 
        the next two fiscal years, including project description, fuel 
        type, expected award date, and the type of appropriation or 
        alternative financing expected for use.''.
    (d) Inclusion of Energy Security and Resilience as Priorities in 
Contracts for Energy or Fuel for Military Installations.--Section 
2922a(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(d) The Secretary concerned shall ensure energy security and 
resilience are prioritized and included in the provision and operation 
of energy production facilities under this section.''.
    (e) Conveyance Authority for Utility Systems.--Section 2688 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Secretary of a 
        military department'' and inserting ``Secretary of Defense, or 
        the Secretary of a military department designated by the 
        Secretary,'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(2), by adding at the end the 
        following: ``The business case analysis must also demonstrate 
        how a privatized system will operate in a manner consistent 
        with subsection (g)(3).''; and
            (3) in subsection (g)(3)--
                    (A) by striking ``Secretary concerned may require'' 
                and inserting ``Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
                with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall 
                require''; and
                    (B) by striking ``consistent with energy resilience 
                requirements and metrics'' and inserting ``consistent 
                with energy resilience and cybersecurity requirements 
                and associated metrics''.
    (f) Modification of Energy Resilience Definition.--Section 
101(e)(6) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``task critical assets and other''.
    (g) Authority To Accept Energy Performance Financial Incentives 
From State and Local Governments.--Section 2913(c) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting ``a State or local government'' 
after ``generally available from''.
    (h) Treatment of Energy Demand Response Financial Incentives.--
Paragraph (2) of section 2919(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) credited to an appropriation designated by the 
        Secretary of Defense, submitted in the annual President's 
        budget request, merged with the appropriation to which 
        credited, and available for energy security or energy 
        resilience projects.''.
    (i) Use of Energy Cost Savings To Implement Energy Resilience and 
Energy Conservation Construction Projects.--Section 2912(b)(1) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``, including energy 
resilience and energy conservation construction projects,'' after 
``energy security measures''.
    (j) Additional Basis for Preservation of Property in the Vicinity 
of Military Installations in Agreements With Non-Federal Entities on 
Use of Such Property.--Section 2684a(a)(2)(B) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(B)'' and inserting ``(B)(i)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end of the following new clause:
                    ``(ii) maintains or improves military installation 
                resilience; or''.

SEC. 312. FUNDING OF STUDY AND ASSESSMENT OF HEALTH IMPLICATIONS OF 
              PER- AND POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES CONTAMINATION IN 
              DRINKING WATER BY AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND DISEASE 
              REGISTRY.

    Paragraph (2) of section 316(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended 
to read as follows:
            ``(2) Funding.--
                    ``(A) Source of funds.--The study and assessment 
                performed pursuant to this section may be paid for 
                using funds authorized to be appropriated to the 
                Department of Defense under the heading `Operation and 
                Maintenance, Defense-Wide'.
                    ``(B) Transfer authority.--(i) Of the amounts 
                authorized to be appropriated for the Department of 
                Defense for fiscal year 2018, not more than $10,000,000 
                shall be transferred by the Secretary of Defense, 
                without regard to section 2215 of title 10, United 
                States Code, to the Secretary of Health and Human 
                Services to pay for the study and assessment required 
                by this section.
                    ``(ii) Without regard to section 2215 of title 10, 
                United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may 
                transfer not more than $10,000,000 a year during fiscal 
                years 2019 and 2020 to the Secretary of Health and 
                Human Services to pay for the study and assessment 
                required by this section.
                    ``(C) Expenditure authority.--Amounts transferred 
                to the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall be 
                used to carry out the study and assessment under this 
                section through contracts, cooperative agreements, or 
                grants. In addition, such funds may be transferred by 
                the Secretary of Health and Human Services to other 
                accounts of the Department for the purposes of carrying 
                out this section.
                    ``(D) Relationship to other transfer authorities.--
                The transfer authority provided under this paragraph is 
                in addition to any other transfer authority available 
                to the Department of Defense.''.

SEC. 313. MILITARY MISSION SUSTAINMENT SITING CLEARINGHOUSE.

    (a) Change in Name of Clearinghouse.--Section 183a of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``Military Aviation 
        and Installation Assurance Clearinghouse for review of mission 
        obstructions'' and inserting ``Military Mission Sustainment 
        Siting Clearinghouse for review of energy projects''; and
            (2) in paragraph (1) of subsection (a), by striking 
        ``Military Aviation and Installation Assurance Siting 
        Clearinghouse'' and inserting ``Military Mission Sustainment 
        Siting Clearinghouse''.
    (b) Responsible Official.--Subsection (a) of such section is 
further amended, in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``control of an 
Assistant Secretary of Defense designated by the Secretary'' and 
inserting ``control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment''.
    (c) Functions.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(2) The Clearinghouse shall coordinate Department of 
        Defense consideration of and response to requests for reviews 
        received from other Federal agencies, State governments, Indian 
        tribal governments, local governments, landowners, and 
        developers of energy projects.''.
    (d) Review of Proposed Actions.--Subsection (c) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, including 
                any potential negative impacts on pilot safety and 
                training'' after ``military operations and readiness''; 
                and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``, including 
                any potential negative impacts on pilot safety and 
                training,'' after ``risks to national security''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``and the relevant local 
        military installation'' after ``notice to the governor of the 
        State''.
    (e) Identification of Actions To Mitigate All Adverse Impacts.--
Subsection (d)(2)(F) is amended by inserting ``all'' before ``adverse 
impacts of projects filed''.
    (f) Department of Defense Finding of Unacceptable Risk.--Subsection 
(e)(1) of such section is amended by inserting ``, including 
unacceptable risk to pilot safety and unacceptable loss of training 
days'' after ``risk to the national security of the United States''.
    (g) Definition of Adverse Impact on Military Operations and 
Readiness.--Subsection (h)(1) of such section is amended by inserting 
``pilot safety,'' after ``including flight operations,''.
    (h) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 7 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 183a and inserting the following:

``183a. Military Mission Sustainment Siting Clearinghouse for review of 
                            energy projects.''.

SEC. 314. OPERATIONAL ENERGY POLICY.

    (a) In General.--Section 2926 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) as 
        subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), respectively;
            (2) by inserting before subsection (c), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1), the following new subsections:
    ``(a) Operational Energy Policy.--In carrying out section 2911(a) 
of this title, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure the types, 
availability, and use of operational energy promote the readiness of 
the armed forces for their military missions.
    ``(b) Authorities.--The Secretary of Defense may--
            ``(1) require the Secretary of a military department or the 
        commander of a combatant command to assess the energy 
        supportability of systems, capabilities, and plans;
            ``(2) authorize the use of energy security, cost of backup 
        power, and energy resilience as factors in the cost-benefit 
        analysis for procurement of operational equipment; and
            ``(3) in selecting equipment that will use operational 
        energy, give favorable consideration to the acquisition of 
        equipment that enhances energy security, energy resilience, 
        energy conservation, and reduces logistical vulnerabilities.''; 
        and
            (3) in subsection (c), as redesignated by subparagraph 
        (A)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                ``Alternative Fuel Activities'' and inserting 
                ``Functions of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Energy, Installations, and Environment'';
                    (B) by striking ``heads of the military departments 
                and the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and 
                Engineering'' and inserting ``heads of the appropriate 
                Department of Defense components'';
                    (C) in paragraph (1), by striking ``lead the 
                alternative fuels activities'' and inserting ``oversee 
                the operational energy activities'';
                    (D) in paragraph (2), by striking ``regarding the 
                development of alternative fuels by the military 
                departments and the Office of the Secretary of 
                Defense'' and inserting ``regarding the policies and 
                investments that affect the use of operational energy 
                across the Department of Defense'';
                    (E) in paragraph (3), by striking ``prescribe 
                policy to streamline the investments in alternative 
                fuel activities across the Department of Defense'' and 
                inserting ``recommend to the Secretary policy to 
                improve warfighting capability through energy security 
                and energy resilience''; and
                    (F) in paragraph (5), by striking ``subsection 
                (c)(4)'' and inserting ``subsection (e)(4)''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--(1) Section 2925(b)(1) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``section 2926(b)'' and 
inserting ``section 2926(d)''.
    (2) Section 1061(c)(55) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 111 note) is 
amended by striking ``section 2926(c)(4)'' and inserting ``section 
2926(e)(4)''.

SEC. 315. FUNDING TREATMENT OF PERFLUOROOCTANE SULFONIC ACID AND 
              PERFLUOROOCTANOIC ACID AT STATE-OWNED AND OPERATED 
              NATIONAL GUARD INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) Assistance Authorized.--The Secretary concerned may provide for 
the treatment of perfluorooctane sulfonic acid and perfluorooctanoic 
acid in drinking water from wells owned and operated by a local water 
authority undertaken to attain the lifetime health advisory level for 
such acids in drinking water.
    (b) Requirements for Assistance.--The Secretary concerned may only 
provide for the treatment of drinking water pursuant to subsection (a) 
if--
            (1) the local water authority has requested such treatment 
        from the Secretary during the fiscal year when the treatment is 
        provided;
            (2) the elevated levels of perfluorooctane sulfonic acid 
        and perfluorooctanoic acid in the drinking water are the result 
        of activities conducted by or paid for by the Department of the 
        Army or the Department of the Air Force at a State-owned 
        National Guard installation;
            (3) such treatment takes place only during the fiscal year 
        in which the request was made;
            (4) the local water authority waives all claims against the 
        United States and the National Guard for treatment expenses 
        incurred before the fiscal year during which the treatment is 
        taking place; and
            (5) the cost of any treatment provided pursuant to 
        subsection (a) does not exceed the actual cost of the treatment 
        attributable to the activities conducted by or paid for by the 
        Department of the Army or the Department of the Air Force, as 
        the case may be.
    (c) Existing Agreements.--Treatment of drinking water pursuant to 
subsection (a) may be provided without regard to existing contractual 
provisions in agreements between the Department of the Army, the 
Department of the Air Force, or the National Guard Bureau, as the case 
may be, and the State in which the base is located relating to 
environmental response actions or indemnification.
    (d) Authority To Enter Into Agreements.--The Secretary concerned 
may enter into such grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts with a 
local water authority as may be necessary to implement this section.
    (e) Use of DSMOA.--Using up to $45,000,000 of the funds authorized 
to be appropriated by section 301 for operation and maintenance, the 
Secretary concerned may pay, utilizing an existing Defense-State 
Memorandum of Agreement, costs that would otherwise be eligible for 
payment under that agreement.
    (f) Termination of Authority.--The authority under this section 
shall terminate on September 30, 2021.
    (g) Retroactive Effect.--Notwithstanding paragraphs (1), (3), (4) 
of subsection (b), the Secretary concerned may reimburse a local water 
authority or a State for the treatment of drinking water pursuant to 
this section if--
            (1) the local water authority or state requested such a 
        payment from the National Guard Bureau prior to March 1, 2018, 
        or the National Guard Bureau was aware of a treatment plan by 
        the local water authority or state prior to that date; and
            (2) the local water authority or the State, as the case may 
        be, waives all claims against the United States and the 
        National Guard for treatment expenses incurred before January 
        1, 2018.
    (h) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Responsibility for response actions.--Section 
        2701(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
        inserting ``or pollutants or contaminants'' after ``releases of 
        hazardous substances''.
            (2) Definition of facility.--Section 2700(2) of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``The terms `environment', 
                `facility','' and inserting ``(A) The terms 
                `environment',''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
            ``(B) The term `facility'--
                    ``(i) has the meaning given the term in section 101 
                of CERCLA (42 U.S.C. 9601); and
                    ``(ii) includes real property which is owned by, 
                leased, to, or otherwise possessed by the United States 
                at locations conducting military activities under the 
                authority of either this title or title 32.''.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) Lifetime health advisory.--The term ``lifetime health 
        advisory'' means the United States Environmental Protection 
        Agency Lifetime Health Advisory for the presence of 
        perfluorooctane sulfonic acid and perfluorooctanoic acid in 
        drinking water.
            (2) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Air 
        Force.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means any of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.
            (4) State-owned national guard installation.--The term 
        ``State-owned National Guard installation'' means a facility or 
        site owned or operated by a State when such facility or site is 
        used for training the National Guard pursuant to chapter 5 of 
        title 32, United States Code, with funds provided by the 
        Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department, 
        even though the Department of Defense is not the owner or 
        operator of such facility or site.

                          Subtitle C--Reports

SEC. 321. REPORTS ON READINESS.

    (a) Uniform Applicability of Readiness Reporting System.--
Subsection (b) of section 117 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``and maintaining'' after 
        ``establishing'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``reporting system is 
        applied uniformly throughout the Department of Defense'' and 
        inserting ``reporting system and associated policies are 
        applied uniformly throughout the Department of Defense, 
        including between and among the joint staff and each of the 
        armed forces'';
            (3) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (5) and (6), respectively;
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(2) that is the single authoritative readiness reporting 
        system for the Department, and that there shall be no military 
        service specific systems;
            ``(3) that readiness assessments are accomplished at an 
        organizational level at, or below, the level at which forces 
        are employed;
            ``(4) that the reporting system include resources 
        information, force posture, and mission centric capability 
        assessments, as well as predicted changes to these 
        attributes;''; and
            (5) in paragraph (5), as redesignated by paragraph (3) of 
        this subsection, by inserting ``, or element of a unit,'' after 
        ``readiness status of a unit''.
    (b) Capabilities of Readiness Reporting System.--Such section is 
further amended in subsection (c)--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``Measure, on a monthly basis, the 
                capability of units'' and inserting ``Measure the 
                readiness of units''; and
                    (B) by striking ``conduct their assigned wartime 
                missions'' and inserting ``conduct their designed and 
                assigned missions'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``Measure, on an annual basis,'' 
                and inserting ``Measure''; and
                    (B) by striking ``wartime missions'' and inserting 
                ``designed and assigned missions'';
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``Measure, on an annual basis,'' 
                and inserting ``Measure''; and
                    (B) by striking ``wartime missions'' and inserting 
                ``designed and assigned missions'';
            (4) in paragraph (4), by striking ``Measure, on a monthly 
        basis,'' and inserting ``Measure'';
            (5) in paragraph (5), by striking ``Measure, on an annual 
        basis,'' and inserting ``Measure'';
            (6) by striking paragraphs (6) and (8) and redesignating 
        paragraph (7) as paragraph (6); and
            (7) in paragraph (6), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``Measure, on a quarterly basis,'' and inserting ``Measure''.
    (c) Semi-annual and Monthly Joint Readiness Reviews.--Such section 
is further amended in subsection (d)(1)(A) by inserting ``, which 
includes a validation of readiness data currency and accuracy'' after 
``joint readiness review''.
    (d) Quarterly Report on Change in Current State of Unit 
Readiness.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (e), by striking ``Submission to 
        Congressional Committees'' and inserting ``Quarterly Report on 
        Joint Readiness'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (h); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(f) Quarterly Report on Monthly Changes in Current State of 
Readiness of Units.--The Secretary shall each quarter submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on each monthly upgrade or 
downgrade of the current state of readiness of a unit that was issued 
by the commander of a unit during the previous quarter, together with 
the rationale of the commander for the issuance of such upgrade or 
downgrade.''.
    (e) Annual Report to Congress on Operational Contract Support.--
Such section is further amended by inserting after subsection (f), as 
added by subsection (d) of this section, the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Annual Report on Operational Contract Support.--The Secretary 
shall each year submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
in writing containing the results of the most recent annual measurement 
of the capability of operational contract support to support current 
and anticipated wartime missions of the armed forces. Each such report 
shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
annex.''.
    (f) Regulations.--Such section is further amended in subsection 
(h), as redesignated by subsection (d) of this section, by striking 
``prescribe the units that are subject to reporting in the readiness 
reporting system, what type of equipment is subject to such reporting'' 
and inserting ``prescribe the established information technology system 
for Department of Defense reporting, specifically authorize exceptions 
to a single-system architecture, and identify the organizations, units, 
and entities that are subject to reporting in the readiness reporting 
system, what organization resources are subject to such reporting''.
    (g) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section heading.--Such section is further amended in 
        the section heading by striking ``: establishment; reporting to 
        congressional committees''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 2 is amended by striking the item relating 
        to section 117 and inserting the following new item:

``117. Readiness reporting system.''.

SEC. 322. REPORT ON COLD WEATHER CAPABILITIES AND READINESS OF UNITED 
              STATES ARMED FORCES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the current cold weather 
capabilities and readiness of the United States Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of current cold weather capabilities and 
        training to support United States military operations in cold 
        climates across the joint force.
            (2) A description of anticipated requirements for United 
        States military operations in cold and extreme cold weather in 
        the Arctic, Northeast Asia, and Northern and Eastern Europe.
            (3) A description of the current cold weather readiness of 
        the joint force, the ability to increase cold weather training 
        across the joint force, and any equipment, infrastructure, 
        personnel, or resource limitations or gaps that may exist.
            (4) An analysis of potential opportunities to expand cold 
        weather training for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the 
        Marine Corps and the resources or infrastructure required for 
        such expansion.
            (5) An analysis of potential cold weather amphibious 
        landing locations, including the potential for a combined arms 
        live fire exercise.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 331. PILOT PROGRAMS ON INTEGRATION OF MILITARY INFORMATION SUPPORT 
              AND CIVIL AFFAIRS ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Pilot Programs Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--The commander of any geographic combatant 
        command designated by the Secretary of Defense for purposes of 
        this section, and the Commander of the United States Special 
        Operations Command if so designated, may carry out one or more 
        pilot programs designed to assess the feasability and 
        advisability of integrating military information support and 
        civil affairs in support of the theater campaign plans of such 
        combatant command.
            (2) Concurrence of chiefs of mission.--Activities under a 
        pilot program under this section may be carried out in a 
        country only with the concurrence of the Chief of Mission for 
        that country.
    (b) Requirement for Both Military Information Support and Civil 
Affairs Capabilities.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and 
        (3), each pilot program under this section shall include both a 
        military information support capability and a civil affairs 
        capability.
            (2) No military information support capability.--A pilot 
        program may be carried out in a region or country in which no 
        military information support capability is deployed if the 
        program is complemented by a Department of State public 
        diplomacy effort that contributes to the fulfillment of the 
        objectives of the commander of the combatant command concerned 
        to convey information to foreign audiences in the region or 
        county to influence their emotions, motives, objective 
        reasoning, and behavior in support of the applicable theater 
        campaign plan.
            (3) No civil affairs capability.--A pilot program may be 
        carried out in a region or country in which no civil affairs 
        capability is deployed if the program is complemented by an 
        effort of the Department of State or the United States Agency 
        for International Development to contribute to the fulfillment 
        of the objectives of the commander of the combatant command 
        concerned to reestablish or maintain stability within the 
        region or country in support of the applicable theater campaign 
        plan.
            (4) Plan.--In the event a pilot program will be carried out 
        pursuant to paragraph (2) or (3), planning for the pilot 
        program shall include an explanation of concept, budget, 
        timeline, and metrics for measuring the effectiveness of 
        activities of the Department of State or United States Agency 
        for International Development, as applicable, under the pilot 
        program.
    (c) Duration.--The authority to carry out pilot programs under this 
section shall cease on September 30, 2023.
    (d) Annual Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the last day 
        of each of fiscal year 2019 through 2023, the Secretary shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
        pilot programs carried out under this section during the 
        preceding fiscal year.
            (2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall 
        include, for the fiscal year covered by such report, the 
        following:
                    (A) A list of all pilot programs carried out, set 
                forth by combatant command.
                    (B) A list of all pilot programs commenced, set 
                forth by combatant command.
                    (C) The amount of funds provided for each pilot 
                program carried out.
                    (D) The objectives of each pilot program carried 
                out, and the metrics used or to be used to measure the 
                effectiveness of such pilot program.
                    (E) A description of the manner in which each pilot 
                program carried out supports the applicable theater 
                campaign plan of the commanders of the combatant 
                command concerned.
                    (F) If a pilot program was concluded, an assessment 
                of the value of the program, a description and 
                assessment of lessons learned through the program, and 
                any recommendations the Secretary considers appropriate 
                for follow-on efforts in connection with the program.
    (e) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023 for the 
        Department of Defense for operation and maintenance and 
        available for the combatant commands, an aggregate of 
        $20,000,000 may be used in each such fiscal year by each such 
        combatant command for pilot programs under this section.
            (2) Limitation on amount for particular programs.--The 
        amount expended on any particular pilot program may not exceed 
        $2,000,000.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Civil affairs.--The term ``civil affairs'' means 
        activities intended to establish, maintain, influence, or 
        exploit relations between military forces, indigenous 
        populations, and institutions by directly supporting the 
        attainment of objectives relating to the reestablishment or 
        maintenance of stability within a region or country.
            (2) Military information support.--The term ``military 
        information support'' means operations to convey selected 
        information and indicators to foreign audiences to influence 
        their emotions, motives, objective reasoning, and ultimately 
        the behavior of foreign governments, organizations, groups, and 
        individuals in a manner favorable to the objectives of those 
        planning such operations.
            (3) Theater campaign plan.--The term ``theater campaign 
        plan'' means a plan developed by a combatant command for the 
        steady-state activities of the command, including operations, 
        security cooperation, and other activities designed to achieve 
        strategic end states in the theater.

SEC. 332. REPORTING ON FUTURE YEARS BUDGETING BY SUBACTIVITY GROUP.

    Along with the budget for each fiscal year submitted by the 
President pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, 
the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military 
departments shall include in the OP-5 Justification Books as detailed 
by Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation 7000.14-R the 
amount for each individual subactivity group (SAG) as detailed in the 
Department's future years defense program pursuant to section 221 of 
title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 333. RESTRICTION ON UPGRADES TO AVIATION DEMONSTRATION TEAM 
              AIRCRAFT.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided under subsection (b), the 
Secretary of Defense may not upgrade the type, model, or series of 
aircraft used by a military service for its fixed wing aviation 
demonstration teams, including Blue Angel and Thunderbird aircraft, 
until the service's active and reserve duty squadrons and weapon 
training schools have replaced 100 percent of the existing type, model, 
and series of aircraft.
    (b) Waiver Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may, upon written 
notice to the congressional defense committees, waive the prohibition 
under subsection (a) for the purpose of carrying out upgrades to the 
type, model, or series of the aircraft described under such subsection 
that are necessary to ensure the safety of pilots.

SEC. 334. U.S. SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND CIVILIAN PERSONNEL.

    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for 
Operation and Maintenance, Defense-wide for U.S. Special Operations 
Command civilian personnel, not less than $6,200,000 shall be used to 
fund the detail of civilian personnel to the office of the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict 
to support the Secretariat for Special Operations.

SEC. 335. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR SERVICE-SPECIFIC 
              DEFENSE READINESS REPORTING SYSTEMS.

    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for 
fiscal year 2019 for operation and maintenance, research, development, 
test, and evaluation, or procurement, and available to operate service 
specific Defense Readiness Reporting Systems (DRRS) may be made 
available for such purpose except for required maintenance and in order 
to facilitate the transition to DRRS-Strategic (DRRS-S).
    (b) Plan.--Not later than February 1, 2019, the Under Secretary for 
Personnel and Readiness shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a resource and funding plan to include a schedule with 
relevant milestones on the elimination of service-specific DRRS and the 
migration of the military services and other organizations to DRRS-S.
    (c) Transition.--The military services shall complete the 
transition to DRRS-S not later than October 1, 2019. The Secretary of 
Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees upon the 
complete transition of the services.
    (d) Reporting Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretary for Personnel and 
        Readiness, the Under Secretary for Acquisition and Sustainment, 
        and the Under Secretary for Research and Engineering, in 
        coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments 
        and other organizations with relevant technical expertise, 
        shall establish a working group including individuals with 
        expertise in application or software development, data science, 
        testing, and development and assessment of performance metrics 
        to assess the current process for collecting, analyzing, and 
        communicating readiness data, and develop a strategy for 
        implementing any recommended changes to improve and establish 
        readiness metrics using the current DRRS-Strategic platform.
            (2) Elements.--The assessment conducted pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) identification of modern tools, methods, and 
                approaches to readiness to more effectively and 
                efficiently collect, analyze, and make decision based 
                on readiness data; and
                    (B) consideration of cost and schedule.
            (3) Submission to congress.--Not later than February 1, 
        2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees the assessment conducted 
        pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (e) Defense Readiness Reporting Requirements.--To the maximum 
extent practicable, the Secretary of Defense shall meet defense 
readiness reporting requirements consistent with the recommendations of 
the working group established under subsection (d)(1).

SEC. 336. REPURPOSING AND REUSE OF SURPLUS ARMY FIREARMS.

    Section 348(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1365) is amended by inserting 
``shredded or'' before ``melted and repurposed''.

SEC. 337. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF 
              ADDITIONAL SPECIALIZED UNDERGRADUATE PILOT TRAINING 
              FACILITY.

    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for 
fiscal year 2019 for Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training for the 
Air Force (referred to in this section as ``SUPT'') no funds may be 
used to enter into a contract for the procurement of equipment, 
facilities, real property, or services to establish a new SUPT location 
in the United States until the date on which the Secretary of the Air 
Force submits to the congressional defense committees the certification 
described under subsection (b).
    (b) Certification.--The certification referred to in subsection (a) 
is a certification that--
            (1) existing SUPT installations are operating at maximum 
        capacity in terms of pilot production; and
            (2) the Air Force plans to operate existing SUPT 
        installations at maximum capacity over the future years defense 
        program.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2019, the 
        Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report on existing SUPT production, 
        resourcing, and locations.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following elements:
                    (A) A description of the strategy of the Air Force 
                for utilizing existing SUPT locations to produce the 
                number of pilots the Air Force requires.
                    (B) The number of pilots that each SUPT location 
                has graduated, by year, over the previous 5 fiscal 
                years.
                    (C) The forecast number of pilots that each SUPT 
                location will produce for fiscal year 2019.
                    (D) The maximum production capacity of each SUPT 
                location.
                    (E) A cost estimate of the resources required for 
                each SUPT location to reach maximum production 
                capacity.
                    (F) A determination as to whether increasing 
                production capacity at existing SUPT locations will 
                satisfy the Air Force's SUPT requirement.
                    (G) A timeline and cost estimation of establishing 
                a new SUPT location.
                    (H) A business case analysis comparing the 
                establishment of a new SUPT location to increasing 
                production capacity at existing SUPT locations.

SEC. 338. SCOPE OF AUTHORITY FOR RESTORATION OF LAND DUE TO MISHAP.

    Subsection (e) of section 2691 of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by section 2814 of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1849), 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The authority under paragraphs (1) and (2) includes 
activities and expenditures necessary to complete restoration to meet 
the regulations of the Federal department or agency with administrative 
jurisdiction over the affected land, which may be different than the 
regulations of the Department of Defense.''.

SEC. 339. REDESIGNATION OF THE UTAH TEST AND TRAINING RANGE (UTTR).

    The Utah Test and Training Range (UTTR) located in northwestern 
Utah and eastern Nevada may be redesignated.

                 Subtitle E--Logistics and Sustainment

SEC. 351. LIMITATION ON MODIFICATIONS TO NAVY FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, 
              RESTORATION, AND MODERNIZATION (FSRM) STRUCTURE AND 
              MECHANISM.

    The Secretary of the Navy may not make any modification to the 
existing Navy Facilities Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization 
(FSRM) structure or mechanism that would modify duty relationships or 
significantly alter the existing structure until 90 days after 
providing notice of the proposed modification to the congressional 
defense committees.

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.

    The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel 
as of September 30, 2019, as follows:
            (1) The Army, 485,741.
            (2) The Navy, 331,900.
            (3) The Marine Corps, 186,100.
            (4) The Air Force, 325,720.

SEC. 402. END STRENGTHS FOR COMMISSIONED OFFICERS ON ACTIVE DUTY IN 
              CERTAIN GRADES.

    The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for commissioned officers 
on active duty as of September 30, 2019, in the grades as follows in 
the number specified:
            (1) The Army:
                    (A) Colonel, 3,970.
                    (B) Lieutenant colonel, 8,700.
                    (C) Major, 15,470.
            (2) The Navy:
                    (A) Captain, 3,060.
                    (B) Commander, 6,670.
                    (C) Lieutenant commander, 11,010.
            (3) The Marine Corps:
                    (A) Colonel, 650.
                    (B) Lieutenant colonel, 1,910.
                    (C) Major, 3,920.
            (4) The Air Force:
                    (A) Colonel, 3,450.
                    (B) Lieutenant colonel, 10,270.
                    (C) Major, 13,920.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE.

    (a) In General.--The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for 
Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 
30, 2019, as follows:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 343,500.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 199,500.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 59,000.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 38,500.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 106,600.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 69,800.
            (7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
    (b) End Strength Reductions.--The end strengths prescribed by 
subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall 
be proportionately reduced by--
            (1) the total authorized strength of units organized to 
        serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which 
        are on active duty (other than for training) at the end of the 
        fiscal year; and
            (2) the total number of individual members not in units 
        organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such 
        component who are on active duty (other than for training or 
        for unsatisfactory participation in training) without their 
        consent at the end of the fiscal year.
    (c) End Strength Increases.--Whenever units or individual members 
of the Selected Reserve of any reserve component are released from 
active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for 
such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component 
shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of 
such units and by the total number of such individual members.

SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN SUPPORT OF THE 
              RESERVES.

    Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 
2019, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time 
active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National 
Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, 
instructing, or training the reserve components:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,155.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 16,261.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 10,101.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,261.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 19,450.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 3,588.

SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS).

    The minimum number of military technicians (dual status) as of the 
last day of fiscal year 2019 for the reserve components of the Army and 
the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 of title 10, United States 
Code) shall be the following:
            (1) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 
        22,294.
            (2) For the Army Reserve, 6,492.
            (3) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 
        18,969.
            (4) For the Air Force Reserve, 8,880.

SEC. 414. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO BE ON 
              ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.

    During fiscal year 2019, the maximum number of members of the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time 
on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is the following:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 for the use of the Armed Forces 
and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4401.
    (b) Construction of Authorization.--The authorization of 
appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other authorization of 
appropriations (definite or indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal 
year 2019.

SEC. 422. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR PERSONNEL IN FISCAL YEAR 2019 
              IN EXCESS OF STATUTORILY SPECIFIED END STRENGTHS FOR 
              FISCAL YEAR 2018.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, funds authorized 
to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for the 
Department of Defense for fiscal year 2019 for military personnel may 
be not obligated or expended for a number of military personnel covered 
by an end strength in title IV of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) in excess of such end 
strength until the Secretary of Defense has submitted to the 
congressional defense committees the report required under subsection 
(b) of section 1041.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

              PART I--OFFICER PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT REFORM

SEC. 501. REPEAL OF CODIFIED SPECIFICATION OF AUTHORIZED STRENGTHS OF 
              CERTAIN COMMISSIONED OFFICERS ON ACTIVE DUTY.

    Effective as of October 1, 2018, the text of section 523 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``The total number of commissioned officers serving on active duty 
in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps in each of the grades of major, 
lieutenant colonel, or colonel, or in the Navy in each of the grades of 
lieutenant commander, commander, or captain, at the end of any fiscal 
year shall be as specifically authorized by Act of Congress for such 
fiscal year.''.

SEC. 502. ANNUAL DEFENSE MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS REPORT MATTERS.

    (a) Date of Submittal.--Subsection (a) of section 115a of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by 
striking ``not later than 45 days after the date on which'' and 
inserting ``on the date on which''.
    (b) Specification of Anticipated Opportunities for Promotion of 
Commissioned Officers.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended by 
adding the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) The opportunities for promotion of commissioned 
        officers anticipated to be estimated pursuant to section 
        623(b)(4) of this title for the fiscal year in which such 
        report is submitted for purposes of promotion selection boards 
        convened pursuant to section 611 of this title during such 
        fiscal year.''.
    (c) Enumeration of Required Numbers of Certain Commissioned 
Officers.--Such section is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(i) In each such report, the Secretary shall also include a 
separate statement of the number of officers required for the next 
fiscal year in each grade as follows:
            ``(1) Major, lieutenant colonel, and colonel of each of the 
        Army, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps.
            ``(2) Lieutenant commander, commander, and captain of the 
        Navy.''.

SEC. 503. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR ABILITY TO COMPLETE 20 YEARS OF 
              SERVICE BY AGE 62 AS QUALIFICATION FOR ORIGINAL 
              APPOINTMENT AS A REGULAR COMMISSIONED OFFICER.

    (a) Repeal.--Subsection (a) of section 532 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) as 
        paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), respectively.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Such section is further amended by 
striking subsection (d).
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
respect to original appointments of regular commissioned officers of 
the Armed Forces made on or after that date.

SEC. 504. ENHANCEMENT OF AVAILABILITY OF CONSTRUCTIVE SERVICE CREDIT 
              FOR PRIVATE SECTOR TRAINING OR EXPERIENCE UPON ORIGINAL 
              APPOINTMENT AS A COMMISSIONED OFFICER.

    (a) Regular Officers.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (b) of section 533 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking subparagraph (D) 
                and inserting the following new subparagraph (D):
            ``(D) Additional credit for special training or experience 
        in a particular officer career field as designated by the 
        Secretary concerned, if such training or experience is directly 
        related to the operational needs of the armed force 
        concerned.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``Except as authorized by 
                        the Secretary concerned in individual cases and 
                        under regulations prescribed by the Secretary 
                        of Defense in the case of a medical or dental 
                        officer, the amount'' and inserting ``The 
                        amount''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``in the grade of major in 
                        the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps or 
                        lieutenant commander in the Navy'' and 
                        inserting ``in the grade of colonel in the 
                        Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps or captain in 
                        the Navy''.
            (2) Repeal of temporary authority for service credit for 
        critically necessary cyberspace-related experience.--Such 
        section is further amended--
                    (A) in subsections (a)(2) and (c), by striking ``or 
                (g)''; and
                    (B) by striking subsection (g).
    (b) Reserve Officers.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (b) of section 12207 of title 
        10, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking subparagraph (D) 
                and inserting the following new subparagraph (D):
            ``(D) Additional credit for special training or experience 
        in a particular officer career field as designated by the 
        Secretary concerned, if such training or experience is directly 
        related to the operational needs of the armed force 
        concerned.''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the 
                following new paragraph (3):
    ``(3) The amount of constructive service credit credited to an 
officer under this subsection may not exceed the amount required in 
order for the officer to be eligible for an original appointment as a 
reserve officer of the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps in the grade of 
colonel or as a reserve officer of the Navy in the grade of captain.''.
            (2) Repeal of temporary authority for service credit for 
        critically necessary cyberspace-related experience.--Such 
        section is further amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (e);
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as 
                subsections (e) and (f), respectively; and
                    (C) in subsection (e), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (B), by striking ``, (d), or (e)'' and 
                inserting ``or (d)''.

SEC. 505. STANDARDIZED TEMPORARY PROMOTION AUTHORITY ACROSS THE 
              MILITARY DEPARTMENTS FOR OFFICERS IN CERTAIN GRADES WITH 
              CRITICAL SKILLS.

    (a) Standardized Temporary Promotion Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 35 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 605. Promotion to certain grades for officers with critical 
              skills: colonel, lieutenant colonel, major, captain; 
              captain, commander, lieutenant commander, lieutenant
    ``(a) In General.--An officer in the grade of first lieutenant, 
captain, major, or lieutenant colonel in the Army, Air Force, or Marine 
Corps, or lieutenant (junior grade), lieutenant, lieutenant commander, 
or commander in the Navy, who is described in subsection (b) may be 
temporarily promoted to the grade of captain, major, lieutenant 
colonel, or colonel in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, or 
lieutenant, lieutenant commander, commander, or captain in the Navy, as 
applicable, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the 
military department concerned. Appointments under this section shall be 
made by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate.
    ``(b) Covered Officers.--An officer described in this subsection is 
any officer in a grade specified in subsection (a) who--
            ``(1) has a skill in which the armed force concerned has a 
        critical shortage of personnel (as determined by the Secretary 
        of the military department concerned); and
            ``(2) is serving in a position (as determined by the 
        Secretary of the military department concerned) that--
                    ``(A) is designated to be held by a captain, major, 
                lieutenant colonel, or colonel in the Army, Air Force, 
                or Marine Corps, or lieutenant, lieutenant commander, 
                commander, or captain in the Navy, as applicable; and
                    ``(B) requires that an officer serving in such 
                position have the skill possessed by such officer.
    ``(c) Status of Officers Appointed.--
            ``(1) Preservation of position and status.--An appointment 
        under this section does not change the position on the active-
        duty list or the permanent, probationary, or acting status of 
        the officer so appointed, prejudice the officer in regard to 
        other promotions or appointments, or abridge the rights or 
        benefits of the officer.
            ``(2) Grade for purposes of annual defense manpower 
        reports.--For purposes of section 115a of this title, an 
        officer holding an appointment under this section is considered 
        as serving in the grade of the temporary promotion this 
        section.
    ``(d) Board Recommendation Required.--A temporary promotion under 
this section may be made only upon the recommendation of a board of 
officers convened by the Secretary of the military department concerned 
for the purpose of recommending officers for such promotions.
    ``(e) Acceptance and Effective Date of Appointment.--Each 
appointment under this section, unless expressly declined, is, without 
formal acceptance, regarded as accepted on the date such appointment is 
made, and a member so appointed is entitled to the pay and allowances 
of the grade of the temporary promotion under this section from the 
date the appointment is made.
    ``(f) Termination of Appointment.--Unless sooner terminated, an 
appointment under this section terminates--
            ``(1) on the date the officer who received the appointment 
        is promoted to the permanent grade of captain, major, 
        lieutenant colonel, or colonel in the Army, Air Force, or 
        Marine Corps, or lieutenant, lieutenant commander, commander, 
        or captain in the Navy; or
            ``(2) on the date the officer is detached from a position 
        described in subsection (b)(2), unless the officer is on a 
        promotion list to the permanent grade of captain, major, 
        lieutenant colonel, or colonel in the Army, Air Force, or 
        Marine Corps, or lieutenant, lieutenant commander, commander, 
        or captain in the Navy, in which case the appointment 
        terminates on the date the officer is promoted to that grade.
    ``(g) Limitation on Number of Eligible Positions.--An appointment 
under this section may only be made for service in a position 
designated by the Secretary of the military department concerned for 
the purposes of this section. The number of positions so designated may 
not exceed the following:
            ``(1) In the case of the Army--
                    ``(A) as captain, 120;
                    ``(B) as major, 350;
                    ``(C) as lieutenant colonel, 200; and
                    ``(D) as colonel, 100.
            ``(2) In the case of the Air Force--
                    ``(A) as captain, 100;
                    ``(B) as major, 325;
                    ``(C) as lieutenant colonel, 175; and
                    ``(D) as colonel, 80.
            ``(3) In the case of the Marine Corps--
                    ``(A) as captain, 50;
                    ``(B) as major, 175;
                    ``(C) as lieutenant colonel, 100; and
                    ``(D) as colonel, 50.
            ``(4) In the case of the Navy--
                    ``(A) as lieutenant, 100;
                    ``(B) as lieutenant commander, 325;
                    ``(C) as commander, 175; and
                    ``(D) as captain, 80.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 35 of such title is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

``605. Promotion to certain grades for officers with critical skills: 
                            colonel, lieutenant colonel, major, 
                            captain; captain, commander, lieutenant 
                            commander, lieutenant.''.
    (b) Repeal of Superseded Authority Applicable to Navy 
Lieutenants.--
            (1) Repeal.--Chapter 544 of title 10, United States Code, 
        is repealed.
            (2) Clerical amendments.--The tables of chapters at the 
        beginning of title 10, United States Code, and at the beginning 
        of subtitle C of such title, are each amended by striking the 
        item relating to chapter 544.

SEC. 506. AUTHORITY FOR PROMOTION BOARDS TO RECOMMEND OFFICERS OF 
              PARTICULAR MERIT BE PLACED HIGHER ON A PROMOTION LIST.

    (a) DOPMA Boards.--
            (1) In general.--Section 616 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(g)(1) In selecting the officers to be recommended for promotion, 
a selection board may, when authorized by the Secretary of the military 
department concerned, recommend officers of particular merit, from 
among those officers selected for promotion, to be placed higher on the 
promotion list established by the Secretary under section 624(a)(1) of 
this title.
    ``(2) An officer may be recommended to be placed higher on a 
promotion list under paragraph (1) only if the officer receives the 
recommendation of at least a majority of the members of the board, 
unless the Secretary concerned establishes an alternative requirement. 
Any such alternative requirement shall be furnished to the board as 
part of the guidelines furnished to the board under section 615 of this 
title.
    ``(3) For the officers recommended to be placed higher on a 
promotion list under paragraph (1), the board shall recommend the order 
in which those officers should be placed on the list.''.
            (2) Promotion selection board reports recommending officers 
        of particular merit be placed higher on promotion list.--
        Section 617 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new subsection:
    ``(d) A selection board convened under section 611(a) of this title 
shall, when authorized under section 616(g) of this title, include in 
its report to the Secretary concerned the names of those officers 
recommended by the board to be placed higher on the promotion list and 
the order in which the board recommends that those officers should be 
placed on the list.''.
            (3) Officers of particular merit appearing higher on 
        promotion list.--Section 624(a)(1) of such title is amended in 
        the first sentence by adding at the end ``or based on 
        particular merit, as determined by the promotion board''.
    (b) ROPMA Boards.--
            (1) In general.--Section 14108 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(f) Officers of Partcular Merit.--(1) In selecting the officers 
to be recommended for promotion, a promotion board may, when authorized 
by the Secretary of the military department concerned, recommend 
officers of particular merit, from among those officers selected for 
promotion, to be placed higher on the promotion list established by the 
Secretary under section 14308(a) of this title.
    ``(2) An officer may be recommended to be placed higher on a 
promotion list under paragraph (1) only if the officer receives the 
recommendation of at least a majority of the members of the board, 
unless the Secretary concerned establishes an alternative requirement. 
Any such alternative requirement shall be furnished to the board as 
part of the guidelines furnished to the board under section 14107 of 
this title.
    ``(3) For the officers recommended to be placed higher on a 
promotion list under paragraph (1), the board shall recommend the order 
in which those officers should be placed on the list.''.
            (2) Promotion board reports recommending officers of 
        particular merit be placed higher on promotion list.--Section 
        14109 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new subsection:
    ``(d) Officers of Particular Merit.--A promotion board convened 
under section 14101(a) of this title shall, when authorized under 
section 14108(f) of this title, include in its report to the Secretary 
concerned the names of those officers recommended by the board to be 
placed higher on the promotion list and the order in which the board 
recommends that those officers should be placed on the list.''.
            (3) Officers of particular merit appearing higher on 
        promotion list.--Section 14308(a) of such title is amended in 
        the first sentence by adding at the end ``or based on 
        particular merit, as determined by the promotion board''.

SEC. 507. AUTHORITY FOR OFFICERS TO OPT OUT OF PROMOTION BOARD 
              CONSIDERATION.

    (a) Active-Duty List Officers.--Section 619 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(6) An officer excluded under subsection (e).''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Authority To Allow Officers To Opt Out of Selection Board 
Consideration.--(1) The Secretary of a military department may provide 
that an officer under the jurisdiction of the Secretary may, upon the 
officer's request and with the approval of the Secretary, be excluded 
from consideration by a selection board convened under section 611(a) 
of this title to consider officers for promotion to the next higher 
grade.
    ``(2) The Secretary concerned may only approve a request under 
paragraph (1) if--
            ``(A) the basis for the request is to allow an officer to 
        complete a broadening assignment, advanced education, another 
        assignment of significant value to the Department, or a career 
        progression requirement delayed by the assignment or education;
            ``(B) the Secretary determines the exclusion from 
        consideration is in the best interest of the military 
        department concerned; and
            ``(C) the officer has not previously failed of selection 
        for promotion to the grade for which the officer requests the 
        exclusion from consideration.''.
    (b) Reserve Active-Status List Officers.--Section 14301 of such 
title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                ``Previously Selected Officers Not Eligible'' and 
                inserting ``Certain Officers Not''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(6) An officer excluded under subsection (j).''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(j) Authority To Allow Officers To Opt Out of Selection Board 
Consideration.--(1) The Secretary a military department may provide 
that an officer under the jurisdiction of the Secretary may, upon the 
officer's request and with the approval of the Secretary, be excluded 
from consideration by a selection board convened under section 14101(a) 
of this title to consider officers for promotion to the next higher 
grade.
    ``(2) The Secretary concerned may only approve a request under 
paragraph (1) if--
            ``(A) the basis for the request is to allow an officer to 
        complete a broadening assignment, advanced education, another 
        assignment of significant value to the Department, or a career 
        progression requirement delayed by the assignment or education;
            ``(B) the Secretary determines the exclusion from 
        consideration is in the best interest of the military 
        department concerned; and
            ``(C) the officer has not previously failed of selection 
        for promotion to the grade for which the officer requests the 
        exclusion from consideration.''.

SEC. 508. COMPETITIVE CATEGORY MATTERS.

    Section 621 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) Competitive Categories.--'' before 
        ``Under regulations''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(b) Bases for Competitive Categories.--Competitive categories 
shall be established on the bases as follows:
            ``(1) Officers occupying similar officer qualifications, 
        specialties, occupations, or ratings shall be grouped together.
            ``(2) Promotion timing, promotion opportunity, and officer 
        career length shall each be tailored to particular officer 
        qualifications, specialties, occupations, or ratings.
    ``(c) Consistency Not Required in Promotion Timing or 
Opportunity.--In establishing competitive categories, the Secretary of 
a military department shall not be required to provide consistency in 
promotion timing or promotion opportunity among competitive categories 
of the armed force concerned.''.

SEC. 509. PROMOTION ZONE MATTERS.

    (a) Alignment With Annual Defense Manpower Requirements Reports.--
Subsection (b) of section 623 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph (5):
            ``(5) the alignment of opportunities for promotion for 
        officers considered by any particular selection board with 
        opportunities for promotion in the next year as estimated 
        pursuant to paragraph (4) and reported in the annual defense 
        manpower requirements report covering such year under section 
        115a of this title.''.
    (b) Prohibition on Determination of Officers in Promotion Zone 
Based on Year of Original Appointment to Current Grade.--
            (1) In general.--Such section is further amended by adding 
        at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) The Secretary concerned may not determine the number of 
officers in a promotion zone on the basis of the year in which officers 
receive their original appointment in their current grade.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
        shall apply with respect to promotion zones established for 
        promotion selection boards convened on or after that date.

SEC. 510. ALTERNATIVE PROMOTION AUTHORITY FOR OFFICERS IN DESIGNATED 
              COMPETITIVE CATEGORIES OF OFFICERS.

    (a) Alternative Promotion Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 36 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subchapter:

   ``SUBCHAPTER VI--ALTERNATIVE PROMOTION AUTHORITY FOR OFFICERS IN 
                   DESIGNATED COMPETITIVE CATEGORIES

``Sec.
``649a. Officers in designated competitive categories.
``649b. Selection for promotion.
``649c. Eligibility for consideration for promotion.
``649d. Opportunities for consideration for promotion.
``649e. Promotions.
``649f. Failure of selection for promotion.
``649g. Retirement: retirement for years of service; selective early 
                            retirement.
``649h. Continuation on active duty.
``649h-1. Continuation on active duty: officers in certain military 
                            specialties and career tracks.
``649i. Other administrative authorities.
``649j. Regulations.
``Sec. 649a. Officers in designated competitive categories
    ``(a) Authority To Designate Competitive Categories of Officers.--
Each Secretary of a military department may designate one or more 
competitive categories for promotion of officers under section 621 of 
this title that are under the jurisdiction of such Secretary as a 
competitive category of officers whose promotion, retirement, and 
continuation on active duty shall be subject to the provisions of this 
subchapter.
    ``(b) Limitation on Exercise of Authority.--The Secretary of a 
military department may not designate a competitive category of 
officers for purposes of this subchapter until 60 days after the date 
on which the Secretary submits to the Committees on Armed Services of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the designation 
of the competitive category. The report on the designation of a 
competitive category shall set forth the following:
            ``(1) A detailed description of officer requirements for 
        officers within the competitive category.
            ``(2) An explanation of the number of opportunities for 
        consideration for promotion to each particular grade, and an 
        estimate of promotion timing, within the competitive category.
            ``(3) An estimate of the size of the promotion zone for 
        each grade within the competitive category.
            ``(4) A description of any other matters the Secretary 
        considered in determining to designate the competitive category 
        for purposes of this subchapter.
``Sec. 649b. Selection for promotion
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in this section, the 
selection for promotion of officers in any competitive category of 
officers designated for purposes of this subchapter shall be governed 
by the provisions of subchapter I of this chapter.
    ``(b) No Recommendation for Promotion of Officers Below Promotion 
Zone.--Section 616(b) of this title shall not apply to the selection 
for promotion of officers described in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Recommendation for Officers To Be Excluded From Future 
Consideration for Promotion.--In making recommendations pursuant to 
section 616 of this title for purposes of the administration of this 
subchapter, a selection board convened under section 611(a) of this 
title may recommend that an officer considered by the board be excluded 
from future consideration for promotion under this chapter.
``Sec. 649c. Eligibility for consideration for promotion
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided by this section, eligibility 
for promotion of officers in any competitive category of officers 
designated for purposes of this subchapter shall be governed by the 
provisions of section 619 of this title.
    ``(b) Inapplicability of Certain Time-in-grade Requirements.--
Paragraphs (2) through (4) of section 619(a) of this title shall not 
apply to the promotion of officers described in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Inapplicability to Officers Above and Below Promotion Zone.--
The following provisions of section 619(c) of this title shall not 
apply to the promotion of officers described in subsection (a):
            ``(1) The reference in paragraph (1) of that section to an 
        officer above the promotion zone.
            ``(2) Paragraph (2)(A) of that section.
    ``(d) Ineligibility of Certain Officers.--The following officers 
are not eligible for promotion under this subchapter:
            ``(1) An officer described in section 619(d) of this title.
            ``(2) An officer not included within the promotion zone.
            ``(3) An officer who has failed of promotion to a higher 
        grade the maximum number of times specified for opportunities 
        for promotion for such grade within the competitive category 
        concerned pursuant to section 649d of this title.
            ``(4) An officer recommended by a selection board to be 
        removed from consideration for promotion in accordance with 
        section 649b(c) of this title.
``Sec. 649d. Opportunities for consideration for promotion
    ``(a) Specification of Number of Opportunities for Consideration 
for Promotion.--In designating a competitive category of officers 
pursuant to section 649a of this title, the Secretary of a military 
department shall specify the number of opportunities for consideration 
for promotion to be afforded officers of the armed force concerned 
within the category for promotion to each grade above the grade of 
first lieutenant or lieutenant (junior grade), as applicable.
    ``(b) Limited Authority of Secretary of Military Department to 
Modify Number of Opportunities.--The Secretary of a military department 
may modify the number of opportunities for consideration for promotion 
to be afforded officers of an armed force within a competitive category 
for promotion to a particular grade, as previously specified by the 
Secretary pursuant subsection (a) or this subsection, not more 
frequently than once every five years.
    ``(c) Discretionary Authority of Secretary of Defense to Modify 
Number of Opportunities.--The Secretary of Defense may modify the 
number of opportunities for consideration for promotion to be afforded 
officers of an armed force within a competitive category for promotion 
to a particular grade, as previously specified or modified pursuant to 
any provision of this section, at the discretion of the Secretary.
    ``(d) Limitation on Number of Opportunities Specified.--The number 
of opportunities for consideration for promotion to be afforded 
officers of an armed force within a competitive category for promotion 
to a particular grade, as specified or modified pursuant to any 
provision of this section, may not exceed five opportunities.
    ``(e) Effect of Certain Reduction in Number of Opportunities 
Specified.--If, by reason of a reduction in the number of opportunities 
for consideration for promotion under this section, an officer would no 
longer have one or more opportunities for consideration for promotion 
that were available to the officer before the reduction, the officer 
shall be afforded one additional opportunity for consideration for 
promotion after the reduction.
``Sec. 649e. Promotions
    ``Sections 620 through 626 of this title shall apply in promotions 
of officers in competitive categories of officers designated for 
purposes of this subchapter.
``Sec. 649f. Failure of selection for promotion
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in this section, sections 627 
through 632 of this title shall apply to promotions of officers in 
competitive categories of officers designated for purposes of this 
subchapter.
    ``(b) Inapplicability of Failure of Selection for Promotion to 
Officers Above Promotion Zone.--The reference in section 627 of this 
title to an officer above the promotion zone shall not apply in the 
promotion of officers described in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Special Selection Board Matters.--The reference in section 
628(a)(1) of this title to a person above the promotion zone shall not 
apply in the promotion of officers described in subsection (a).
    ``(d) Effect of Failure of Selection.--In the administration of 
this subchapter pursuant to subsection (a)--
            ``(1) an officer described in subsection (a) shall not be 
        deemed to have failed twice of selection for promotion for 
        purposes of section 629(e)(2) of this title until the officer 
        has failed selection of promotion to the next higher grade the 
        maximum number of times specified for opportunities for 
        promotion to such grade within the competitive category 
        concerned pursuant to section 649d of this title; and
            ``(2) any reference in section 631(a) or 632(a) of this 
        title to an officer who has failed of selection for promotion 
        to the next higher grade for the second time shall be deemed to 
        refer instead to an officer described in subsection (a) who has 
        failed of selection for promotion to the next higher grade for 
        the maximum number of times specified for opportunities for 
        promotion to such grade within the competitive category 
        concerned pursuant to such section 649d.
``Sec. 649g. Retirement: retirement for years of service; selective 
              early retirement
    ``(a) Retirement for Years of Services.--Sections 633 through 636 
of this title shall apply to the retirement of officers in competitive 
categories of officers designated for purposes of this subchapter.
    ``(b) Selective Early Retirement.--Sections 638 and 638a of this 
title shall apply to the retirement of officers described in subsection 
(a).
``Sec. 649h. Continuation on active duty
    ``(a) In General.--An officer subject to discharge or retirement 
pursuant to this subchapter may, subject to the needs of the service, 
be continued on active duty if the officer is selected for continuation 
on active duty in accordance with this section by a selection board 
convened under section 611(b) of this title.
    ``(b) Identification of Positions for Officers Continued on Active 
Duty.--
            ``(1) In general.--Officers may be selected for 
        continuation on active duty pursuant to this section only for 
        assignment to positions identified by the Secretary of the 
        military department concerned for which vacancies exist or are 
        anticipated to exist.
            ``(2) Identification.--Before convening a selection board 
        pursuant to section 611(b) of this title for purposes of 
        selection of officers for continuation on active duty pursuant 
        to this section, the Secretary of the military department 
        concerned shall specify for purposes of the board the positions 
        identified by the Secretary to which officers selected for 
        continuation on active duty may be assigned.
    ``(c) Recommendation for Continuation.--A selection board may 
recommend an officer for continuation on active duty pursuant to this 
section only if the board determines that the officer is qualified for 
assignment to one or more positions identified pursuant to subsection 
(b) on the basis of skills, knowledge, and behavior required of an 
officer to perform successfully in such position or positions.
    ``(d) Approval of Secretary of Military Department.--Continuation 
of an officer on active duty under this section pursuant to the action 
of a selection board is subject to the approval of the Secretary of the 
military department concerned.
    ``(e) Nonacceptance of Continuation.--An officer who is selected 
for continuation on active duty pursuant to this section, but who 
declines to continue on active duty, shall be discharged or retired, as 
appropriate, in accordance with section 632 of this title.
    ``(f) Period of Continuation.--
            ``(1) In general.--An officer continued on active duty 
        pursuant to this section shall remain on active duty, and serve 
        in the position to which assigned (or in another position to 
        which assigned with the approval of the Secretary of the 
        military department concerned), for a total of not more than 
        three years afer the date of assignment to the position to 
        which first so assigned.
            ``(2) Additional continuation.--An officer whose continued 
        service pursuant to this section would otherwise expire 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) may be continued on active duty if 
        selected for continuation on active duty in accordance with 
        this section before the date of expiration pursuant to that 
        paragraph.
    ``(g) Effect of Expiration of Continuation.--Each officer continued 
on active duty pursuant to this subsection who is not selected for 
continuation on active duty pursuant to subsection (f)(2) at the 
completion of the officer's term of continued service shall, unless 
sooner discharged or retired under another provision of law--
            ``(1) be discharged upon the expiration of the term of 
        continued service; or
            ``(2) if eligible for retirement under another other 
        provision of law, be retired under that law on the first day of 
        the first month following the month in which the officer 
        completes the term of continued service.
    ``(h) Treatment of Discharge or Retirement.--The discharge or 
retirement of an officer pursuant to this section shall be considered 
to be an involuntary discharge or retirement for purposes of any other 
provision of law.
``Sec. 649h-1. Continuation on active duty: officers in certain 
              military specialties and career tracks
    ``In addition to continuation on active duty provided for in 
section 649h of this title, an officer to whom section 637a of this 
title applies may be continued on active duty in accordance with the 
provisions of such section 637a.
``Sec. 649i. Other administrative authorities
    ``(a) In General.--The following provisions of this title shall 
apply to officers in competitive categories of officers designated for 
purposes of this subchapter:
            ``(1) Section 638b, relating to voluntary retirement 
        incentives.
            ``(2) Section 639, relating to continuation on active duty 
        to complete disciplinary action.
            ``(3) Section 640, relating to deferment of retirement or 
        separation for medical reasons.
``Sec. 649j. Regulations
    ``The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations regarding 
the administration of this subchapter. The elements of such regulations 
shall include mechanisms to clarify the manner in which provisions of 
other subchapters of this chapter shall be used in the administration 
of this subchapter in accordance with the provisions of this 
subchapter.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of subchapters at the 
        beginning of chapter 36 of such title is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

``VI. Alternative Promotion Authority for Officers in           649a''.
                            Designated Competitive 
                            Categories.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
        consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives a report on the authorities in 
        subchapter VI of chapter 36 of title 10, United States Code (as 
        added by subsection (a)).
            (2) Elements.--The report shall include the following:
                    (A) A detailed analysis and assessment of the 
                manner in which the exercise of the authorities in 
                subchapter VI of chapter 36 of title 10, United States 
                Code (as so added), will effect the career progression 
                of commissioned officers in the Armed Forces.
                    (B) A description of the competitive categories of 
                officers that are anticipated to be designated as 
                competitive categories of officers for purposes of such 
                authorities.
                    (C) A plan for implementation of such authorities.
                    (D) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary of Defense 
                considers appropriate to improve or enhance such 
                authorities.

SEC. 511. APPLICABILITY TO ADDITIONAL OFFICER GRADES OF AUTHORITY FOR 
              CONTINUATION ON ACTIVE DUTY OF OFFICERS IN CERTAIN 
              MILITARY SPECIALTIES AND CAREER TRACKS.

    Section 637a(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``grade O-4'' and inserting ``grade O-2''; 
        and
            (2) by inserting ``632,'' before ``633,''.

                         PART II--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 516. MATTERS RELATING TO SATISFACTORY SERVICE IN GRADE FOR 
              PURPOSES OF RETIREMENT GRADE OF OFFICERS IN HIGHEST GRADE 
              OF SATISFACTORY SERVICE.

    (a) Conditional Determinations of Grade of Satisfactory Service.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 1370 of title 
        10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new sentences: ``When an officer is under 
        investigation for alleged misconduct at the time of retirement, 
        the Secretary concerned may conditionally determine the highest 
        grade of satisfactory service of the officer pending completion 
        of the investigation. Such grade is subject to reopening in 
        accordance with subsection (f).''.
            (2) Officers in o-9 and o-10 grades.--Subsection (c) of 
        such section is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraph:
    ``(4) The Secretary of Defense may make a conditional certification 
regarding satisfactory service in grade under paragraph (1) with 
respect to an officer under that paragraph notwithstanding the fact 
that there is pending the disposition of an adverse personnel action 
against the officer for alleged misconduct. The retired grade of an 
officer following such a conditional certification is subject to 
reopening in accordance with subsection (f).''.
            (3) Reserve officers.--Subsection (d)(1) of such section is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new sentences: 
        ``When an officer is under investigation for alleged misconduct 
        at the time of retirement, the Secretary concerned may 
        conditionally determine the highest grade of satisfactory 
        service of the officer pending completion of the investigation. 
        Such grade is subject to reopening in accordance with 
        subsection (f).''.
    (b) Determinations of Satisfactory Service.--Such section is 
further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (g); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Determinations of Satisfactory Service in Grade.--The 
determination whether an officer's service in grade is satisfactory for 
purposes of any provision of this section shall--
            ``(1) be based on quantative and qualitative 
        considerations;
            ``(2) take into account both acts and omissions; and
            ``(3) take into account service in current grade and in any 
        prior grade in which served (whether a lower or higher 
        grade).''.
    (c) Finality of Retired Grade Determinations.--Such section is 
further amended by inserting after subsection (e), as amended by 
subsection (b) of this section, the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Finality of Retired Grade Determinations.--(1) Except as 
otherwise provided by law, a determination or certification of the 
retired grade of an officer pursuant to this section is 
administratively final on the day the officer is retired, and may not 
be reopened.
    ``(2) A determination or certification of the retired grade of an 
officer may be reopened as follows:
            ``(A) If the retirement or retired grade of the officer was 
        procured by fraud.
            ``(B) If substantial evidence comes to light after the 
        retirement that could have led to a lower retired grade under 
        this section if known by competent authority at the time of 
        retirement.
            ``(C) If a mistake of law or calculation was made in the 
        determination of the retired grade.
            ``(D) In the case of a retired grade following a 
        conditional determination under subsection (a)(1) or (d)(1) or 
        conditional certification under subsection (c)(4), if the 
        investigation of or personnel action against the officer, as 
        applicable, results in adverse findings.
            ``(E) If the Secretary concerned determines, pursuant to 
        regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, that good 
        cause exists to reopen the determination or certification.
    ``(3) If a determination or certification of the retired grade of 
an officer is reopened, the Secretary concerned--
            ``(A) shall notify the officer of the reopening; and
            ``(B) may not make an adverse determination on the retired 
        grade of the officer until the officer has had a reasonable 
        opportunity to respond regarding the basis of the reopening.
    ``(4) If a certification of the retired grade of an officer covered 
by subsection (c) is reopened, the Secretary concerned shall also 
notify the President and Congress of the reopening.
    ``(5) If the retired grade of an officer is reduced through the 
reopening of the officer's retired grade, the retired pay of the 
officer under chapter 71 of this title shall be recalculated, and any 
modification of the retired pay of the officer shall go into effect on 
the effective date of the reduction of the officer's retired grade.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply 
with respect to officers who retire from the Armed Forces on or after 
that date.

SEC. 517. REDUCTION IN NUMBER OF YEARS OF ACTIVE NAVAL SERVICE REQUIRED 
              FOR PERMANENT APPOINTMENT AS A LIMITED DUTY OFFICER.

    Section 5589(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``10 years'' and inserting ``8 years''.

SEC. 518. REPEAL OF ORIGINAL APPOINTMENT QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENT FOR 
              WARRANT OFFICERS IN THE REGULAR ARMY.

    (a) In General.--Section 3310 of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 335 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 3310.

SEC. 519. UNIFORM GRADE OF SERVICE OF THE CHIEFS OF CHAPLAINS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES.

    The grade of service as Chief of Chaplains of the Army, Chief of 
Chaplains of the Navy, and Chief of Chaplains of the Air Force of an 
officer serving in such position shall be such grade as the Secretary 
of Defense shall specify. The grade of service shall be the same for 
service in each such position.

SEC. 520. WRITTEN JUSTIFICATION FOR APPOINTMENT OF CHIEFS OF CHAPLAINS 
              IN GRADE BELOW GRADE OF MAJOR GENERAL OR REAR ADMIRAL.

    (a) Chief of Chaplains of the Army.--Section 3036 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(h) If an individual is appointed Chief of Chaplains in a regular 
grade below the grade of major general, the Secretary of the Army shall 
submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives a report setting forth in writing the justification 
for the appointment of the individual as Chief of Chaplains in such 
lower grade.''.
    (b) Chief of Chaplains of the Navy.--Section 5142(b) of such title 
is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) If an individual is appointed Chief of Chaplains in a regular 
grade below the grade of rear admiral, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives a report setting forth in writing the justification 
for the appointment of the individual as Chief of Chaplains in such 
lower grade.''.
    (c) Chief of Chaplains of the Air Force.--Section 8039(a) of such 
title is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
    ``(2) If an individual is appointed Chief of Chaplains in a regular 
grade below the grade of major general, the Secretary of the Air Force 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report setting forth in writing the 
justification for the appointment of the individual as Chief of 
Chaplains in such lower grade.''.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

SEC. 521. AUTHORITY TO ADJUST EFFECTIVE DATE OF PROMOTION IN THE EVENT 
              OF UNDUE DELAY IN EXTENDING FEDERAL RECOGNITION OF 
              PROMOTION.

    (a) In General.--Section 14308(f) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The effective date of 
        promotion''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) If the Secretary concerned determines that there was an undue 
delay in extending Federal recognition in the next higher grade in the 
Army National Guard or the Air National Guard to a reserve commissioned 
officer of the Army or the Air Force, and the delay was not 
attributable to the action (or inaction) of such officer, the effective 
date of the promotion concerned under paragraph (1) may be adjusted to 
a date determined by the Secretary concerned, but not earlier than the 
effective date of the State promotion.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply 
with respect to promotions of officers whose State effective date is on 
or after that date.

SEC. 522. AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE CERTAIN RESERVE OFFICERS AS NOT TO BE 
              CONSIDERED FOR SELECTION FOR PROMOTION.

    Section 14301 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(j) Certain Officers Not to Be Considered for Selection for 
Promotion.--The Secretary of the military department concerned may 
provide that an officer who is in an active status, but is in a duty 
status in which the only points the officer accrues under section 
12732(a)(2) of this title are pursuant to subparagraph (C)(i) of that 
section (relating to membership in a reserve component), shall not be 
considered for selection for promotion until completion of two years of 
service in such duty status. Any such officer may remain on the reserve 
active-status list.''.

SEC. 523. EXPANSION OF PERSONNEL SUBJECT TO AUTHORITY OF THE CHIEF OF 
              THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU IN THE EXECUTION OF FUNCTIONS 
              AND MISSIONS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU.

    Section 10508(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``sections 2103,'' and all that follows through ``of title 
32,'' and inserting ``sections 2102, 2103, 2105, and 3101, and 
subchapter IV of chapter 53, of title 5, or sections 328 and 709 of 
title 32,''.

SEC. 524. REPEAL OF PROHIBITION ON SERVICE ON ARMY RESERVE FORCES 
              POLICY COMMITTEE BY MEMBERS ON ACTIVE DUTY.

    Section 10302 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``not on active duty'' 
        each place it appears; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by inserting ``of the reserve components'' 
                after ``among the members''; and
                    (B) by striking ``not on active duty''.

                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

SEC. 531. ASSESSMENT OF NAVY STANDARD WORKWEEK AND RELATED ADJUSTMENTS.

    (a) Assessment.--The Secretary of the Navy shall conduct a 
comprehensive assessment of the Navy standard workweek.
    (b) Other Requirements.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) update Office of the Chief of Naval Operations 
        Instruction 1000.16L in order to--
                    (A) obtain an examination of current in-port 
                workloads; and
                    (B) identify the manpower necessary to execute in-
                port workload for all surface ship classes;
            (2) update the criteria used in the Instruction referred to 
        in paragraph (1) that are used to reassess the factors used to 
        calculate manpower requirements periodically or when conditions 
        change; and
            (3) using the updates required by paragraphs (1) and (2), 
        identify personnel needs and costs associated with the planned 
        larger size of the Navy fleet.
    (c) Added Demands.--The Secretary shall identify and quantify added 
demands on Navy ship crews, including Ready Relevant Learning training 
periods and additional work that affects readiness and technical 
qualifications for Navy ship crews.
    (d) Deadline.--The Secretary shall complete carrying out the 
requirements in this section by not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 532. MANNING OF FORWARD DEPLOYED NAVAL FORCES.

    Commencing not later than October 1, 2019, the Secretary of the 
Navy shall implement a policy to man ships homeported overseas 
(commonly referred to as ``Forward Deployed Naval Forces'') at manning 
levels not less than the levels established for each ship class or type 
of unit, including any adjustments resulting from as a result of 
changes from actions in connection with section 531, relating to an 
assessment of the Navy standard workweek and related adjustments.

SEC. 533. NAVY WATCHSTANDER RECORDS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Navy shall require that, 
commencing not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, key watchstanders on Navy surface ships shall maintain a 
career record of watchstanding hours and specific operational 
evolutions.
    (b) Key Watchstander Defined.--In this section, the term ``key 
watchstander'' means each of the following:
            (1) Officer of the Deck.
            (2) Any other officer specified by the Secretary for 
        purposes of this section.

SEC. 534. QUALIFICATION EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN NAVY 
              WATCHSTATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date the of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the adequacy of individual training for 
certain watchstations, including any planned or recommended changes in 
qualification standards for such watchstations.
    (b) Watchstations.--The watchstations covered by the report 
required by subsection (a) are the following:
            (1) Officer of the Deck.
            (2) Combat Information Center Watch Officer.
            (3) Tactical Action Officer.

SEC. 535. REPEAL OF 15-YEAR STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS ON MOTIONS OR 
              REQUESTS FOR REVIEW OF DISCHARGE OR DISMISSAL FROM THE 
              ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 1553(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by striking the second sentence.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2019.

SEC. 536. TREATMENT OF CLAIMS RELATING TO MILITARY SEXUAL TRAUMA IN 
              CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS AND REVIEW OF DISCHARGE OR 
              DISMISSAL PROCEEDINGS.

    (a) Correction of Military Records.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (h) of section 1552 of title 
        10, United States Code, is amended in paragraphs (1) and 
        (2)(B), by striking ``post-traumatic stress disorder or 
        traumatic brain injury'' and inserting ``post-traumatic stress 
        disorder, traumatic brain injury, or military sexual trauma''.
            (2) Quarterly reports.--Subsection (i)(1) of such section 
        is amended by inserting ``, or an experience of military sexual 
        trauma,'' after ``traumatic brain injury''.
    (b) Review of Discharge or Dismissal.--Section 1553(d) of such 
title is amended--
            (1) by striking ``or traumatic brain injury'' each place it 
        appears (other than the second place it appears in paragraph 
        (3)(B)) and inserting ``, traumatic brain injury, or military 
        sexual trauma''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3)(B), by inserting ``and'' before 
        ``whose'' the second place it appears.

                  Subtitle D--Military Justice Matters

SEC. 541. PUNITIVE ARTICLE ON DOMESTIC VIOLENCE UNDER THE UNIFORM CODE 
              OF MILITARY JUSTICE.

    (a) Punitive Article.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, 
        United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
        amended by inserting after section 928a (article 128a) the 
        following new section (article):
``Sec. 928b. Art. 128b. Domestic violence
    ``(a) In General.--Any person who--
            ``(1) commits a violent offense against a spouse, an 
        intimate partner, or an immediate family member of that person;
            ``(2) with intent to threaten or intimidate a spouse, an 
        intimate partner, or an immediate family member of that 
        person--
                    ``(A) commits an offense under this chapter against 
                any person; or
                    ``(B) commits an offense under this chapter against 
                any property, including an animal;
            ``(3) with intent to threaten or intimidate a spouse, an 
        intimate partner, or an immediate family member of that person, 
        violates a protection order;
            ``(4) with intent to commit a violent offense against a 
        spouse, an intimate partner, or an immediate family member of 
        that person, violates a protection order; or
            ``(5) assaults a spouse, an intimate partner, or an 
        immediate family member of that person by strangling or 
        suffocating;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section (article):
            ``(1) Immediate family.--The term `immediate family', with 
        respect to an accused, means a spouse, parent, brother or 
        sister, child of the accused, a person to whom the accused 
        stands in loco parentis, and any other person who lives in the 
        household involved and is related by blood or marriage to the 
        accused.
            ``(2) Intimate partner.--The term `intimate partner', with 
        respect to an accused, means--
                    ``(A) a former spouse of the accused;
                    ``(B) a person who has a child in common with the 
                accused;
                    ``(C) a person who cohabits or has cohabited as a 
                spouse with the accused; or
                    ``(D) a person who is or has been in a social 
                relationship of a romantic or intimate nature with the 
                accused, as determined by the length of the 
                relationship, the type of relationship, and the 
                frequency of interaction between the person and the 
                accused.
            ``(3) Protection order.--The term `protection order' 
        means--
                    ``(A) a military protective order enforceable under 
                section 890 of this title (article 90); or
                    ``(B) a protection order, as defined in section 
                2266 of title 18 and, if issued by a State, Indian 
                tribal, or territorial court, is in accordance with the 
                standards specified in section 2265 of such title.
            ``(4) Strangling.--The term `strangling' means 
        intentionally or knowingly impeding the normal breathing or 
        circulation of the blood of a person by applying pressure to 
        the throat or neck, regardless of whether the impeding results 
        in any visible injury or whether there is any intent to kill or 
        protractedly injure the victim.
            ``(5) Suffocating.--The term `suffocating' means 
        intentionally or knowingly impeding the normal breathing of a 
        person by covering the mouth or the nose, regardless of whether 
        the impeding results in any visible injury or whether there is 
        any intent to kill or protractedly injure the victim.
            ``(6) Violent offense.--The term `violent offense' means a 
        violation of any of the provisions of this chapter as follows:
                    ``(A) Section 918 of this title (article 118).
                    ``(B) Section 919(a) of this title (article 
                119(a)).
                    ``(C) Section 919a of this title (article 119a).
                    ``(D) Section 920 of this title (article 120).
                    ``(E) Section 920b of this title (article 120b).
                    ``(F) Section 922 of this title (article 122).
                    ``(G) Section 925 of this title (article 125).
                    ``(H) Section 926 of this title (article 126).
                    ``(I) Section 928 of this title (article 128).
                    ``(J) Section 928a of this title (article 128a).
                    ``(K) Section 930 of this title (article 130).''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of subchapter X of chapter 47 of such title (the 
        Uniform Code of Military Justice) is amended by inserting after 
        the item relating to section 928a (article 128a) the following 
        new item:

``928b. 128b. Domestic violence.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2019, immediately after the coming into effect of 
the amendments made by the Military Justice Act of 2016 (division E of 
Public Law 114-328) as provided in section 5542 of that Act (130 Stat. 
2967; 10 U.S.C. 801 note).

SEC. 542. INCLUSION OF STRANGULATION AND SUFFOCATION IN CONDUCT 
              CONSTITUTING AGGRAVATED ASSAULT FOR PURPOSES OF THE 
              UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (b) of section 928 of title 10, United 
States Code (article 128 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by adding ``or'' after the semicolon; 
        and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(3) who commits an assault by strangulation or 
        suffocation;''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on January 1, 2019, immediately after the coming into 
effect of the amendment made by section 5441 of the Military Justice 
Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2954) as 
provided in section 5542 of that Act (130 Stat. 2967; 10 U.S.C. 801 
note).

SEC. 543. AUTHORITIES OF DEFENSE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATION, 
              PROSECUTION, AND DEFENSE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    Section 546 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (10 U.S.C. 1561 
note) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d) Authorities.--
            ``(1) Hearings.--The Advisory Committee may hold such 
        hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such 
        testimony, and receive such evidence as the committee considers 
        appropriate to carry out its duties under this section.
            ``(2) Information from federal agencies.--Upon request by 
        the chair of the Advisory Committee, a department or agency of 
        the Federal Government shall provide information that the 
        Advisory Committee considers necessary to carry out its duties 
        under this section.''.

SEC. 544. PROTECTIVE ORDERS AGAINST INDIVIDUALS SUBJECT TO THE UNIFORM 
              CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE.

    (a) Protective Orders.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 47 of title 10, 
        United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
        amended by inserting after section 809 (article 9) the 
        following new section (article):
``Sec. 809a. Art. 9a. Protective orders
    ``(a) Issuance Authorized.--
            ``(1) In general.--In accordance with such regulations as 
        the President may prescribe and subject to the provisions of 
        this section, upon proper application therefor pursuant to 
        subsection (b), a military judge or military magistrate may 
        issue the following:
                    ``(A) A protective order described in subsection 
                (c) on an emergency basis against a person subject to 
                this chapter.
                    ``(B) A protective order described in subsection 
                (c), other than a protective order on an emergency 
                basis, against a person subject to this chapter.
            ``(2) Other protective orders.--Nothing in this section may 
        be construed as limiting or altering any authority of a 
        military judge or military magistrate to issue a protective 
        order, other than a protective order described in subsection 
        (c), against a person subject to this chapter under any other 
        provision of law or regulation.
    ``(b) Application.--
            ``(1) In general.--Application for a protective order under 
        this section shall be made in accordance with such requirements 
        and procedures as the President shall prescribe. Such 
        requirements and procedures shall, to the extent practicable, 
        conform to the requirements and procedures generally applicable 
        to applications for protective orders in civilian jurisdictions 
        of the United States.
            ``(2) Eligibility.--Application for a protective order may 
        be made by any individual. The regulations prescribed for 
        purposes of this section may not limit eligibility for 
        application to judge advocates or other attorneys or to 
        military commanders or other members of the armed forces.
    ``(c) Protective Orders.--
            ``(1) In general.--A protective order described in this 
        subsection is an order that--
                    ``(A) restrains a person from harassing, stalking, 
                threatening, or otherwise contacting or communicating 
                with another person who stands in relation to the 
                person as described in subsection (d)(8) or (g)(8) of 
                section 922 of title 18, or engaging in other conduct 
                that would place such other person in reasonable fear 
                of bodily injury to any such other person; and
                    ``(B) by its terms, explicitly prohibits--
                            ``(i) the use, attempted use, or threatened 
                        use of physical force by the person against 
                        another person who stands in relation to the 
                        person as described in subsection (d)(8) or 
                        (g)(8) of section 922 of title 18 that would 
                        reasonably be expected to cause bodily injury;
                            ``(ii) the initiation by the person 
                        restrained of any contact or communication with 
                        such other person; or
                            ``(iii) actions described by both clauses 
                        (i) and (ii).
            ``(2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) The term `contact' includes contact in person 
                or through a third party, or through gifts,
                    ``(B) The term `communication' includes 
                communication in person or through a third party, and 
                by telephone or in writing by letter, data fax, or 
                other electronic means.
    ``(d) Due Process.--
            ``(1) Protection of due process.--Except as provided in 
        paragraph (2), a protective order described in subsection (c) 
        may only be issued after the person to be subject to the order 
        has received such notice and opportunity to be heard on the 
        order as the President shall prescribe.
            ``(2) Emergency orders.--A protective order on an emergency 
        basis may be issued on an ex parte basis under such rules and 
        limitations as the President shall prescribe.
    ``(e) Nature and Scope of Protective Orders.--The President shall 
prescribe any requirements or limitations applicable to nature and 
scope of protective orders described in subsection (c), including 
requirements and limitations relating to the following:
            ``(1) The duration of protective orders on an emergency 
        basis, and of other protective orders.
            ``(2) The scope of protective orders on an emergency basis, 
        and of other protective orders.
    ``(f) Command Matters.--
            ``(1) Delivery to commander.--A copy of a protective order 
        described in subsection (c) against a member of the armed 
        forces shall be provided to such commanding officer in the 
        chain of command of the member as the President shall prescribe 
        for purposes of this section.
            ``(2) Inclusion in personnel file.--Any protective order 
        described in subsection (c) against a member shall be placed 
        and retained in the military personnel file of the member.
            ``(3) Notice to civilian law enforcement of issuance.--Any 
        protective order described in subsection (c) against a member 
        shall be treated as a military protective order for purposes of 
        section 1567a of this title, including for purposes of 
        mandatory notification of issuance to civilian law enforcement 
        as required by that section.
            ``(4) Authority of commanding officers.--Nothing in this 
        section may be construed as prohibiting a commanding officer 
        from issuing or enforcing any otherwise lawful order in the 
        nature of a protective order described in subsection (c) to or 
        against members of the officer's command.
    ``(g) Delivery to Certain Persons.--A physical copy of any 
protective order described in subsection (c) shall be provided, as soon 
as practicable after issuance, to the following:
            ``(1) The person or persons protected by the protective 
        order or to the guardian of such a person if such person is 
        under the age of 18 years.
            ``(2) The person subject to the protective order.
    ``(h) Enforcement.--A protective order described in subsection (c) 
shall be enforceable by a military judge or military magistrate under 
such rules, and subject to such requirements and limitations, as the 
President shall prescribe.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of subchapter II of chapter 47 of such title is 
        amended by inserting after the item relating to section 809 
        (article 9) the following new item:

``809a. 9a. Protective orders.''.
    (b) Authority of Military Magistrates.--
            (1) In general.--Section 826a(b) of title 10, United States 
        Code (article 26a(b) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
        is amended by striking ``819 or 830a of this title (article 19 
        or 30a)'' and inserting ``809a, 819, or 830 of this title 
        (article 9a, 19, or 30a)''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on January 1, 2019, immediately after the 
        coming into effect pursuant to section 5542 of the Military 
        Justice Act of 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-328; 130 
        Stat. 2967; 10 U.S.C. 801 note) of the amendment made by 
        section 5185 of the Military Justice Act of 2016 (130 Stat. 
        2902), to which the amendment made by paragraph (1) relates.

SEC. 545. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL 
              SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1044e of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``alleged sex-related 
offense'' each place it appears and inserting ``alleged covered 
violence offense''.
    (b) Types of Legal Assistance Authorized.--Subsection (b) of such 
section is amended--
            (1) by striking ``the alleged sex-related offense'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``the alleged covered violence 
        offense''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``if and as 
        applicable,'' after ``or domestic abuse advocate,''.
    (c) Availability of SVCs.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(10), by striking ``subsection (h)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (j)'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections 
        (i) and (j), respectively;
            (3) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) by striking the subsection heading and 
                inserting ``Availability of SVCs in Connection With 
                Sex-related Offenses.--''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``an alleged 
                covered violence offense that is'' before ``an alleged 
                sex-related offense'' the first place it appears; and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
        subsections:
    ``(g) Availability of SVCs in Connection With Domestic Violence 
Offenses.--(1) An individual described in subsection (a)(2) who is the 
victim of an alleged covered violence offense that is an alleged 
domestic violence offense shall be offered the option of receiving 
assistance from a Special Victims' Counsel upon report of an alleged 
domestic violence offense or at the time the victim seeks assistance 
from a Family Advocate, a domestic violence victim advocate, a military 
criminal investigator, a victim/witness liaison, a trial counsel, a 
healthcare provider, or any other personnel designated by the Secretary 
concerned for purposes of this subsection.
    ``(2) Paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (f) shall apply to the 
availability of Special Victims' Counsel under this subsection to 
victims of an alleged domestic violence offense.
    ``(h) Availability of SVCs in Connection With Other Covered 
Violence Offenses.--An individual described in subsection (a)(2) who is 
the victim of an alleged covered violence offense (other than an 
alleged offense covered by subsection (f) or (g)) shall be offered the 
option of receiving assistance from a Special Victims' Counsel upon 
report of such alleged covered violence offense or at the time the 
victim seeks assistance from a military criminal investigator, a 
victim/witness liaison, a trial counsel, a healthcare provider, or any 
other personnel designated by the Secretary concerned for purposes of 
this subsection.''.
    (d) Definitions.--Subsection (i) of such section, as redesignated 
by subsection (c)(2) of this section, is further amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Alleged covered violence offense.--The term `alleged 
        covered violence offense' means any allegation of the 
        following:
                    ``(A) A violation of section 918, 919, 919a, 920, 
                920b, 925, 928a, or 930 of this title (article 118, 
                119, 119a, 120, 120b, 125, 128a, or 130 of the Uniform 
                Code of Military Justice).
                    ``(B) A violation of subsection (b) of section 928 
                of this title (article 128 of the Uniform Code of 
                Military Justice), if the offense was aggravated.
                    ``(C) A violation of any other provision of chapter 
                47 of this title (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) 
                that the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security jointly specify as an alleged covered 
                violence offense for purposes of this section.
                    ``(D) An attempt to commit an offense specified in 
                subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) as punishable under 
                section 880 of this title (article 80 of the Uniform 
                Code of Military Justice).
                    ``(E) A conspiracy to commit an offense specified 
                in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) as punishable under 
                section 881 of this title (article 81 of the Uniform 
                Code of Military Justice).
                    ``(F) A solicitation to commit an offense specified 
                in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) as punishable under 
                section 882 of this title (article 82 of the Uniform 
                Code of Military Justice).
            ``(2) Alleged domestic violence offense.--The term `alleged 
        domestic violence offense' means any allegation of the 
        following:
                    ``(A) A violation of section 919b of this title 
                (article 119b of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
                    ``(B) A violation of section 920, 928 (if the 
                offense was aggravated), or 930 of this title (article 
                120, 128, or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military 
                Justice) in which the victim of the violation is a 
                spouse or other intimate partner of the accused or a 
                child of the spouse or other intimate partner of the 
                accused and the accused.
                    ``(C) A violation of any other provision of chapter 
                47 of this title (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) 
                that the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security jointly specify as an alleged 
                domestic violence offense for purposes of this section.
                    ``(D) An attempt to commit an offense specified in 
                subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) as punishable under 
                section 880 of this title (article 80 of the Uniform 
                Code of Military Justice).
                    ``(E) A conspiracy to commit an offense specified 
                in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) as punishable under 
                section 881 of this title (article 81 of the Uniform 
                Code of Military Justice).
                    ``(F) A solicitation to commit an offense specified 
                in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) as punishable under 
                section 882 of this title (article 82 of the Uniform 
                Code of Military Justice).
            ``(3) Alleged sex-related offense.--The term `alleged sex-
        related offense' means any allegation of the following:
                    ``(A) A violation of section 920, 920b, 920c, or 
                930 of this title (article 120, 120b, 120c, or 130 of 
                the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
                    ``(B) A violation of any other provision of chapter 
                47 of this title (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) 
                that the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
                Homeland Security jointly specify as an alleged sex-
                related offense for purposes of this section.
                    ``(C) An attempt to commit an offense specified in 
                subparagraph (A) or (B) as punishable under section 880 
                of this title (article 80 of the Uniform Code of 
                Military Justice).
                    ``(D) A conspiracy to commit an offense specified 
                in subparagraph (A) or (B) as punishable under section 
                881 of this title (article 81 of the Uniform Code of 
                Military Justice).
                    ``(E) A solicitation to commit an offense specified 
                in subparagraph (A) or (B) as punishable under section 
                882 of this title (article 82 of the Uniform Code of 
                Military Justice).''.
    (e) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1044e. Special Victims' Counsel: victims of sex-related 
              offenses, domestic violence offenses, and other violence 
              offenses''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 53 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 1044e and inserting the following 
        new item:

``1044e. Special Victims' Counsel: victims of sex-related offenses, 
                            domestic violence offenses, and other 
                            violence offenses.''.
    (f) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        take effect on such date after January 1, 2019, as the 
        President shall specify for purposes of this section.
            (2) Date specified.--In specifying a date for purposes of 
        paragraph (1), the President shall specify a date that permits 
        the Secretaries concerned and the Armed Forces the opportunity 
        to assess and properly allocate the personnel and other 
        resources required to fully implement and carry out the 
        amendments made by this section.
            (3) Implementation activities.--During the period beginning 
        on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the date 
        specified for purposes of paragraph (1), the Secretaries 
        concerned and the Armed Forces shall--
                    (A) establish mechanisms to ensure that a priority 
                is afforded in the discharge of duties of Special 
                Victims' Counsel under the amendments made by this 
                section to serious cases of child abuse and other 
                domestic violence (including cases involving aggravated 
                assault and serious neglect that could result in 
                serious injury or death); and
                    (B) strongly consider the advisability of employing 
                civilians to perform duties of Special Victims' Counsel 
                in the matters covered by the amendments in the event 
                the number of military Special Victims' Counsel is 
                insufficient for the full and effective discharge of 
                such duties.
            (4) Secretaries concerned defined.--In this subsection, the 
        term ``Secretaries concerned'' has the meaning given that term 
        in section 101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 546. CLARIFICATION OF EXPIRATION OF TERM OF APPELLATE MILITARY 
              JUDGES OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF MILITARY COMMISSION 
              REVIEW.

    (a) In General.--Section 950f(b) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(6) The term of an appellate military judge assigned to the Court 
under paragraph (2) or appointed to the Court under paragraph (3) shall 
expire on the earlier of the date on which--
            ``(A) the judge leaves active duty; or
            ``(B) the judge is reassigned to other duties in accordance 
        with section 949b(b)(4) of this title.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to each judge of the United States Court of Military Commission 
Review serving on that court on the date of the enactment of this Act 
and each judge assigned or appointed to that court on or after such 
date.

SEC. 547. EXPANSION OF POLICIES ON EXPEDITED TRANSFER OF MEMBERS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES WHO ARE VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT.

    (a) Eligibility of Additional Members for Transfer.--The Secretary 
of Defense shall modify section 105.9 of title 32, Code of Federal 
Regulations, and any other regulations and policy of the Department of 
Defense applicable to the expedited transfer of members of the Armed 
Forces who allege they are a victim of sexual assault, in order to 
provide that a member of the Armed Forces described in subsection (b) 
is eligible for expedited transfer under such regulations and policy in 
connection with an allegation as described in that paragraph.
    (b) Covered Members.--A member of the Armed Forces described in 
this subsection is any member as follows:
            (1) A member who is an alleged victim of sexual assault 
        committed by the spouse or intimate partner of the member, 
        which spouse or intimate partner is not a member of the Armed 
        Forces.
            (2) A member who is an alleged victim of physical domestic 
        violence (other than sexual assault) committed by the spouse or 
        intimate partner of the member, regardless of whether the 
        spouse or intimate partner is a member of the Armed Forces.
    (c) Physical Domestic Violence.--In carrying out subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall prescribe the offenses or other actions 
constituting physical domestic violence for purposes of subsection 
(b)(2).

SEC. 548. UNIFORM COMMAND ACTION FORM ON DISPOSITION OF UNRESTRICTED 
              SEXUAL ASSAULT CASES INVOLVING MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    (a) Uniform Form Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish a uniform command action form, applicable across the Armed 
Forces, for reporting the final disposition of cases of sexual assault 
in which--
            (1) the alleged offender is a member of the Armed Forces; 
        and
            (2) the victim files an unrestricted report on the alleged 
        assault.
    (b) Elements.--The form required by subsection (a) shall provide 
for the inclusion of information on the following:
            (1) The final disposition of the case.
            (2) Appropriate demographic information on the victim and 
        the alleged offender.
            (3) The status of the alleged offender as of final 
        disposition of the case.
            (4) Whether the victim received assistance from a Special 
        Victims' Counsel in connection with the case.
            (5) Whether the victim was disciplined for any collateral 
        misconduct in connection with the case.
            (6) The number of years working in a criminal justice 
        litigation billet of any trial counsel who prosecuted or 
        otherwise consulted on the case.

SEC. 549. INCLUSION OF INFORMATION ON CERTAIN COLLATERAL CONDUCT OF 
              VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT IN ANNUAL REPORTS ON SEXUAL 
              ASSAULT INVOLVING MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    Section 1631(b) of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (10 U.S.C. 1561 note) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(13) Information on the frequency with which individuals 
        who were identified as victims of sexual assault in case files 
        of military criminal investigative organizations were also 
        accused of or punished for misconduct or crimes considered 
        collateral to the sexual assault under investigation by such 
        organizations, including the type of misconduct or crime and 
        the punishment, if any, received.''.

   Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Transition, and Resilience

SEC. 551. CONSECUTIVE SERVICE OF SERVICE OBLIGATION IN CONNECTION WITH 
              PAYMENT OF TUITION FOR OFF-DUTY TRAINING OR EDUCATION FOR 
              COMMISSIONED OFFICERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WITH ANY OTHER 
              SERVICE OBLIGATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2007(b) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) Any active duty service obligation of a commissioned officer 
under this subsection shall be served consecutively with any other 
service obligation of the officer (whether active duty or otherwise) 
under any other provision of law.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
respect to agreements for the payment of tuition for off-duty training 
or education that are entered into on or after that date.

SEC. 552. CONSECUTIVE SERVICE OF ACTIVE SERVICE OBLIGATIONS FOR MEDICAL 
              TRAINING WITH OTHER SERVICE OBLIGATIONS FOR EDUCATION OR 
              TRAINING.

    (a) Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences.--Section 
2114(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(d)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) A commissioned service obligation incurred as a result of 
participation in a military intern, residency, or fellowship training 
program shall be served consecutively with the commissioned service 
obligation imposed by this section and by any other provision of this 
title for education or training.''.
    (b) Health Professions Scholarship and Financial Assistance 
Program.--Section 2123(b) of such title is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) A commissioned service obligation incurred as a result of 
participation in a military intern, residency, or fellowship training 
program shall be served consecutively with the active duty obligation 
imposed by this section and by any other provision of this title for 
education or training.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to individuals beginning participation in a military intern, 
residency, or fellowship training program on or after January 1, 2020.

SEC. 553. CLARIFICATION OF APPLICATION AND HONORABLE SERVICE 
              REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE TROOPS-TO-TEACHERS PROGRAM TO 
              MEMBERS OF THE RETIRED RESERVE.

    (a) In General.--Paragraph (2)(B) of section 1154(d) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(A)(iii),'' after ``A(i),'';
            (2) by inserting ``transferred to the Retired Reserve, or'' 
        after ``member is retired,''; and
            (3) by striking ``separated,'' and inserting ``separated''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--The second sentence of paragraph (3)(D) 
of such section is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``, the transfer of the member to the 
        Retired Reserve,'' after ``retirement of the member''; and
            (2) by inserting ``transfer,'' after ``after the 
        retirement,''.

SEC. 554. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR ATTENDANCE OF ENLISTED 
              PERSONNEL AT SENIOR LEVEL AND INTERMEDIATE LEVEL OFFICER 
              PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION COURSES.

    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense may be 
obligated or expended for the purpose of the attendance of enlisted 
personnel at senior level and intermediate level officer professional 
military education courses.
    (b) Senior Level and Intermediate Level Officer Professional 
Military Education Courses Defined.--In this section, the term ``senior 
level and intermediate level officer professional military education 
courses'' means any course offered by a school specified in section 
2151(b) of title 10, United States Code.
    (c) Repeal of Superseded Limitation.--
            (1) In general.--Section 547 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is 
        repealed.
            (2) Preservation of certain reporting requirement.--The 
        repeal in paragraph (1) shall not be interpreted to terminate 
        the requirement of the Comptroller General of the United States 
        to submit the report required by subsection (c) of section 547 
        of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.

SEC. 555. REPEAL OF PROGRAM ON ENCOURAGEMENT OF POSTSEPARATION PUBLIC 
              AND COMMUNITY SERVICE.

    (a) Repeal.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1143a of title 10, United States 
        Code, is repealed.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 58 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 1143a.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 1144(b) of such title is 
amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (8); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (9), (10), and (11) as 
        paragraphs (8), (9), and (10), respectively.

SEC. 556. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO ASSIST MEMBERS IN OBTAINING 
              PROFESSIONAL CREDENTIALS.

    Section 2015 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (b) through (e) as 
        subsections (c) through (f), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection (b):
    ``(b) Professional Credentials Not Related to Military Training and 
Skills.--Under the program required by this section, the Secretary of 
Defense, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, with respect to the 
Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, may 
enable members of the armed forces to obtain, while serving in the 
armed forces, professional credentials for which such members are other 
otherwise qualified that do not relate to military training and skills 
if such Secretary determines that such action is in the best interests 
of the United States.''.

SEC. 557. ENHANCEMENT OF AUTHORITIES IN CONNECTION WITH JUNIOR RESERVE 
              OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS PROGRAMS.

    (a) Flexibility in Authorities for Management of Programs and 
Units.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 102 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 2034. Flexibility in authorities for management of programs and 
              units
    ``(a) Authority To Convert Otherwise Closing Units to National 
Defense Cadet Corps Program Units.--If the Secretary of a military 
department is notified by a local educational agency of the intent of 
the agency to close its Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps, the 
Secretary shall offer the agency the option of converting the unit to a 
National Defense Cadet Corps (NDCC) program unit in lieu of closing the 
unit.
    ``(b) Flexibility in Administration of Instructors.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretaries of the military 
        departments may, without regard to any other provision of this 
        chapter, undertake initiatives designed to promote flexibility 
        in the hiring and compensation of instructors for the Junior 
        Reserve Officers' Training Corps program under the jurisdiction 
        of such Secretaries.
            ``(2) Elements.--The initiatives undertaken pursuant to 
        this subsection may provide for one or more of the following:
                    ``(A) Termination of the requirement for a waiver 
                as a condition of the hiring of well-qualified non-
                commissioned officers with a bachelor's degree for 
                senior instructor positions within the Junior Reserve 
                Officers' Training Corps.
                    ``(B) Specification of a single instructor as the 
                minimum number of instructors required to found and 
                operate a Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps unit.
                    ``(C) Authority for Junior Reserve Officers' 
                Training Corps instructors to undertake school duties, 
                in addition to Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
                duties, at small schools.
                    ``(D) Authority for the payment of instructor 
                compensation for a limited number of Junior Reserve 
                Officers' Training Corps instructors on a 10-month per 
                year basis rather than a 12-month per year basis.
                    ``(E) Such other actions as the Secretaries of the 
                military departments consider appropriate.
    ``(c) Flexibility in Allocation and Use of Travel Funding.--The 
Secretaries of the military departments shall take appropriate actions 
to provide so-called regional directors of the Junior Reserve Officers' 
Training Corps programs located at remote rural schools enhanced 
discretion in the allocation and use of funds for travel in connection 
with Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps activities.
    ``(d) Standardization of Program Data.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall take appropriate actions to standardize the data collected and 
maintained on the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps programs in 
order to facilitate and enhance the collection and analysis of such 
data. Such actions shall include a requirement for the use of the 
National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) identification code for 
each school with a unit under a Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
program in order to facilitate identification of such schools and their 
units under the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps programs.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 102 of such title is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

``2034. Flexibility in authorities for management of programs and 
                            units.''.
    (b) Authority for Additional Units.--The Secretaries of the 
military departments may, using amounts authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act and available in the funding tables in sections 4301 and 
4401 for purposes of the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
programs, establish an aggregate of not more than 100 units under the 
Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps programs in low-income and 
rural areas of the United States and areas of the United States 
currently underserved by the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
programs.

Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

             PART I--DEFENSE DEPENDENTS' EDUCATION MATTERS

SEC. 561. CONTINUATION OF AUTHORITY TO ASSIST LOCAL EDUCATIONAL 
              AGENCIES THAT BENEFIT DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES.

    (a) Assistance to Schools With Significant Numbers of Military 
Dependent Students.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2019 by section 301 and available for operation and 
maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding 
table in section 4301, $40,000,000 shall be available only for the 
purpose of providing assistance to local educational agencies under 
subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 20 U.S.C. 7703b).
    (b) Local Educational Agency Defined.--In this section, the term 
``local educational agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 
7013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 7713(9)).

SEC. 562. IMPACT AID FOR CHILDREN WITH SEVERE DISABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2019 pursuant to section 301 and available for operation 
and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding 
table in section 4301, $10,000,000 shall be available for payments 
under section 363 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-398; 
114 Stat. 1654A-77; 20 U.S.C. 7703a).
    (b) Use of Certain Amount.--Of the amount available under 
subsection (a) for payments as described in that subsection, $5,000,000 
shall be available for such payments to local educational agencies 
determined by the Secretary of Defense, in the discretion of the 
Secretary, to have higher concentrations of military children with 
severe disabilities.

SEC. 563. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY POLICIES AND 
              PROCEDURES ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF STUDENTS OF ACTIVITY 
              SCHOOLS.

    (a) Applicability of Title IX Protections.--The provisions of title 
IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.) (in 
this section referred to as ``title IX'') with respect to education 
programs or activities receiving Federal financial assistance shall 
apply equally to education programs and activities administered by the 
Department of Defense Education Activity (DODEA).
    (b) Policies and Procedures.--Not later than March 31, 2019, the 
Department of Defense Education Activity shall establish policies and 
procedures to protect students at schools of the Activity who are 
victims of sexual harassment. Such policies and procedures shall afford 
protections at least comparable to the protections afforded under title 
IX.
    (c) Elements.--The policies and procedures required by subsection 
(b) shall include, at a minimum, the following:
            (1) A policy addressing sexual harassment of students at 
        the schools of the Department of Defense Education Activity 
        that uses and incorporates terms, procedures, protections, 
        investigation standards, and standards of evidence consistent 
        with title IX.
            (2) A procedure by which--
                    (A) a student of a school of the Activity, or a 
                parent of such a student, may file a complaint with the 
                school alleging an incident of sexual harassment at the 
                school; and
                    (B) such a student or parent may appeal the 
                decision of the school regarding such complaint.
            (3) A procedure and mechanisms for the appointment and 
        training of, and allocation of responsibility to, a coordinator 
        at each school of the Activity for sexual harassment matters 
        involving students from the military community served by such 
        school.
            (4) Training of employees of the Activity, and volunteers 
        at schools of the Activity, on the policies and procedures.
            (5) Mechanisms for the broad distribution and display of 
        the policy described in paragraph (1), including on the 
        Internet website of the Activity and on Internet websites of 
        schools of the Activity, in printed and online versions of 
        student handbooks, and in brochures and flyers displayed on 
        school bulletin boards and in guidance counselor offices.
            (6) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements designed to 
        ensure that--
                    (A) complaints of sexual harassment at schools of 
                the Activity are handled--
                            (i) with professionalism and consistency; 
                        and
                            (ii) in a manner that permits coordinators 
                        referred to in paragraph (3) to track trends in 
                        incidents of sexual harassment and to identify 
                        repeat offenders of sexual harassment; and
                    (B) appropriate members of the local leadership of 
                military communities are held accountable for acting 
                upon complaints of sexual harassment at schools of the 
                Activity.

               PART II--MILITARY FAMILY READINESS MATTERS

SEC. 566. IMPROVEMENT OF AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT FAMILY SUPPORT PROGRAMS 
              FOR IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES ASSIGNED 
              TO SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES.

    (a) Costs of Participation of Family Members in Programs.--Section 
1788a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) as 
        subsections (d), (e), and (f), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) Costs of Family Member Participation.--In carrying out family 
support programs under this section, the Commander may also pay, or 
reimburse immediate family members, for transportation, food, lodging, 
child care, supplies, fees, and training materials in connection with 
the participation of family members in such programs.''.
    (b) Funding.--Subsection (d) of such section, as redesignated by 
subsection (a)(1) of this section, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``up to $5,000,000'' and inserting ``up to 
        $10,000,000''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period the following: ``, 
        including payment of costs of participation in such programs as 
        authorized by subsection (c)''.
    (c) Technical Amendment.--Paragraph (3) of subsection (f) of such 
section, as so redesignated, is amended by striking ``section 167(i)'' 
and inserting ``section 167(j)''.

SEC. 567. EXPANSION OF PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY OF MILITARY ONESOURCE 
              PROGRAM FOR RETIRED AND DISCHARGED MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES AND THEIR IMMEDIATE FAMILIES.

    (a) In General.--Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
Defense, the period of eligibility for the Military OneSource program 
of the Department of Defense of an eligible individual retired, 
discharged, or otherwise released from the Armed Forces, and for the 
eligible immediate family members of such an individual, shall be the 
one-year period beginning on the date of the retirement, discharge, or 
release, as applicable, of such individual.
    (b) Information to Families.--The Secretary shall, in such manner 
as the Secretary considers appropriate, inform military families and 
families of veterans of the Armed Forces of the wide range of benefits 
available through the Military OneSource program.

SEC. 568. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY FOR NONCOMPETITIVE APPOINTMENTS OF 
              MILITARY SPOUSES BY FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Expansion To Include All Spouses of Members of the Armed Forces 
on Active Duty.--Section 3330d of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking paragraphs (3), (4), and (5); and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph 
                (3);
            (2) by striking subsections (b) and (c) and inserting the 
        following new subsection (b):
    ``(b) Appointment Authority.--The head of an agency may appoint 
noncompetitively--
            ``(1) a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active 
        duty; or
            ``(2) a spouse of a disabled or deceased member of the 
        Armed Forces.'';
            (3) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c); and
            (4) in subsection (c), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``subsection (a)(6)'' in paragraph (1) and inserting 
        ``subsection (a)(3)''.
    (b) Heading Amendment.--The heading of such section is amended to 
read as follows:
``Sec. 3330d. Appointment of military spouses''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 33 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 3330d and inserting the following new item:

``3330d. Appointment of military spouses.''.

SEC. 569. IMPROVEMENT OF MY CAREER ADVANCEMENT ACCOUNT PROGRAM FOR 
              MILITARY SPOUSES.

    (a) Outreach on Availability of Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall take 
        appropriate actions to ensure that military spouses who are 
        eligible for participation in the My Career Advancement Account 
        (MyCAA) program of the Department of Defense are, to the extent 
        practicable, made aware of the program.
            (2) Comptroller general report.--Not later than 180 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
        General of the United States shall submit to the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report setting forth such recommendations as the Comptroller 
        General considers appropriate regarding the following:
                    (A) Mechanisms to increase awareness of the My 
                Career Advancement Account program among military 
                spouses who are eligible to participate in the program.
                    (B) Mechanisms to increase participation in the My 
                Career Advancement Account program among military 
                spouses who are eligible to participate in the program.
    (b) Training for Installation Career Counselors on Program.--The 
Secretaries of the military departments shall take appropriate actions 
to ensure that career counselors at military installations receive 
appropriate training and current information on eligibility for and use 
of benefits under the My Career Advancement Account program, including 
financial assistance to cover costs associated with professional 
recertification, portability of occupational licenses, professional 
credential exams, and other mechanisms in connection with the 
portability of professional licenses.

SEC. 570. ACCESS TO MILITARY INSTALLATIONS FOR CERTAIN SURVIVING 
              SPOUSES AND OTHER NEXT OF KIN OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES WHO DIE WHILE ON ACTIVE DUTY OR CERTAIN RESERVE 
              DUTY.

    (a) Procedures for Access of Surviving Spouses Required.--The 
Secretary of Defense, acting jointly with the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, shall establish procedures by which an eligible surviving 
spouse may obtain unescorted access, as appropriate, to military 
installations in order to receive benefits to which the eligible 
surviving spouse may be entitled by law or policy.
    (b) Eligible Surviving Spouse.--
            (1) In general.--In this section, the term ``eligible 
        surviving spouse'' means an individual who--
                    (A) is a surviving spouse of a member of the Armed 
                Forces who dies while serving--
                            (i) on active duty; or
                            (ii) on such reserve duty as the Secretary 
                        of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland 
                        Security may jointly specify for purposes of 
                        this section; and
                    (B) has guardianship of one or more dependent 
                children of such member.
            (2) Status not effected by remarriage.--An individual is an 
        eligible surviving spouse for purposes of this section without 
        regard to whether the individual remarries after the death of 
        the member concerned.
    (c) Procedures for Access of Next of Kin Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, acting jointly 
        with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish 
        procedures by which the next of kin of a deceased member of the 
        Armed Forces, in addition to an eligible surviving spouse, may 
        obtain access to military installations for such purposes and 
        under such conditions as the Secretaries jointly consider 
        appropriate.
            (2) Next of kin.--If the Secretaries establish procedures 
        pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretaries shall jointly 
        specify the individuals who shall constitute next of kin for 
        purposes of such procedures.
    (d) Considerations.--Any procedures established under this section 
shall--
            (1) be applied consistently across the Department of 
        Defense and the Department of Homeland Security, including all 
        components of the Departments;
            (2) minimize any administrative burden on a surviving 
        spouse or dependent child, including through the elimination of 
        any requirement for a surviving spouse to apply as a personal 
        agent for continued access to military installations in 
        accompaniment of a dependent child;
            (3) take into account measures required to ensure the 
        security of military installations, including purpose and 
        eligibility for access and renewal periodicity; and
            (4) take into account such other factors as the Secretary 
        of Defense or the Secretary of Homeland Security considers 
        appropriate.
    (e) Deadline.--The procedures required by subsection (a) shall be 
established by the date that is not later than one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 571. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MILITARY FAMILY READINESS COUNCIL 
              MATTERS.

    (a) Member Matters.--
            (1) Membership.--Paragraph (1)(B) of subsection (b) of 
        section 1781a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``a member of the 
                armed force to be represented'' and inserting ``a 
                member or civilian employee of the armed force to be 
                represented''; and
                    (B) by striking clause (ii) and inserting the 
                following new clause (ii):
                            ``(ii) One representative, who shall be a 
                        member or civilian employee of the National 
                        Guard Bureau, to represent both the Army 
                        National Guard and the Air National Guard.''.
            (2) Terms.--Paragraph (2) of such subsection is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in the first sentence, by striking 
                        ``clauses (i) and (iii) of''; and
                            (ii) by striking the second sentence; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``three 
                years'' and inserting ``two years''.
    (b) Duties.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``military family 
        readiness by the Department of Defense'' and inserting 
        ``military family readiness programs and activities of the 
        Department of Defense''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) To make recommendations to the Secretary of Defense 
        to improve collaboration, awareness, and promotion of accurate 
        and timely military family readiness information and support 
        services by policy makers, service providers, and targeted 
        beneficiaries.''.
    (c) Annual Reports.--Subsection (e) of such section is amended by 
striking ``February 1'' and inserting ``July 1''.
    (d) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Applicability of membership and term amendments.--The 
        amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to members of the 
        Department of Defense Military Family Readiness Council 
        appointed after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 572. MULTIDISCIPLINARY TEAMS FOR MILITARY INSTALLATIONS ON CHILD 
              ABUSE AND OTHER DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.

    (a) Multidisciplinary Teams Required.--
            (1) In general.--Under regulations prescribed by each 
        Secretary concerned, there shall be established and maintained 
        for each military installation, except as provided in paragraph 
        (2), one or more multidisciplinary teams on child abuse and 
        other domestic violence for the purposes specified in 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Single team for proximate installations.--A single 
        multidiscipinary team described in paragraph (1) may be 
        established and maintained under this subsection for two or 
        more military installations in proximity with one another if 
        the Secretary concerned determines, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Defense, that a single team for such installations 
        suffices to carry out the purposes of such teams under 
        subsection (b) for such installations.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of each multidisciplinary team 
maintained pursuant to subsection (a) shall be as follows:
            (1) To provide for the sharing of information among such 
        team and other appropriate personnel on the installation or 
        installations concerned regarding the progress of 
        investigations into and resolutions of incidents of child abuse 
        and other domestic violence involving members of the Armed 
        Forces stationed at or otherwise assigned to the installation 
        or installations.
            (2) To provide for and enhance collaborative efforts among 
        such team and other appropriate personnel of the installation 
        or installations regarding investigations into and resolutions 
        of such incidents.
            (3) To enhance the social services available to military 
        families at the installation or installations in connection 
        with such incidents, including through the enhancement of 
        cooperation among specialists and other personnel providing 
        such services to such military families in connection with such 
        incidents
            (4) To carry out such other duties regarding the response 
        to child abuse and other domestic violence at the installation 
        or installations as the Secretary concerned considers 
        appropriate for such purposes.
    (c) Personnel.--
            (1) In general.--Each multidisciplinary team maintained 
        pursuant to subsection (a) shall be composed of the following:
                    (A) One or more judge advocates.
                    (B) Appropriate personnel of one or more military 
                criminal investigation services.
                    (C) Appropriate mental health professionals.
                    (D) Appropriate medical personnel.
                    (E) Family advocacy case workers.
                    (F) Such other personnel as the Secretary or 
                Secretaries concerned consider appropriate.
            (2) Expertise and training.--Any individual assigned to a 
        multidisciplinary team shall possess such expertise, and shall 
        undertake such training as is required to maintain such 
        expertise, as the Secretary concerned shall specify for 
        purposes of this section in order to ensure that members of the 
        team remain appropriately qualified to carry out the purposes 
        of the team under this section. The training and expertise so 
        specified shall include training and expertise on special 
        victims' crimes, including child abuse and other domestic 
        violence.
    (d) Coordination and Collaboration With Non-military Resources.--
            (1) Use of community resources serving installations.--In 
        providing under this section for a multidisciplinary team for a 
        military installation or installations that benefit from 
        services or resources on child abuse or other domestic violence 
        that are provided by civilian entities in the vicinity of the 
        installation or installations, the Secretary concerned may take 
        the availability of such services or resources to the 
        installation or installations into account in providing for the 
        composition and duties of the team.
            (2) Best practices.--The Secretaries concerned shall take 
        appropriate actions to ensure that multidisciplinary teams 
        maintained pursuant to subsection (a) remain fully and 
        currently apprised of best practices in the civilian sector on 
        investigations into and resolutions of incidents of child abuse 
        and other domestic violence and on the social services provided 
        in connection with such incidents.
            (3) Collaboration.--In providing for the enhancement of 
        social services available to military families in accordance 
        with subsection (b)(3), the Secretaries concerned shall permit, 
        facilitate, and encourage multidisciplinary teams to 
        collaborate with appropriate civilian agencies in the vicinity 
        of the military installations concerned with regard to 
        availability, provision, and use of such services to and by 
        such families.
    (e) Annual Reports.--Not later than March 1 of each of 2020 through 
2022, each Secretary concerned shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
activities of multidisciplinary teams maintained pursuant to subsection 
(a) under the jurisdiction of such Secretary during the preceding year. 
Each report shall set forth, for the period covered by such report, the 
following:
            (1) A summary description of the activities of the 
        multidisciplinary teams concerned, including the number and 
        composition of such teams, the recurring activities of such 
        teams, and any notable achievements of such teams.
            (2) A description of any impediments to the effectiveness 
        of such teams.
            (3) Such recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action as such Secretary considers appropriate in order to 
        improve the effectiveness of such teams.
            (4) Such other matters with respect to such teams as such 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
    (f) Secretary Concerned.--
            (1) Definition.--In this section, the term ``Secretary 
        concerned'' has the meaning given that term in section 
        101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) Usage with respect to multiple installations.--For 
        purposes of this section, any reference to ``Secretary 
        concerned'' with respect to a single multidisciplinary team 
        established and maintained pursuant to subsection (a) for two 
        or more military installations that are under the jurisdiction 
        of different Secretaries concerned, shall be deemed to refer to 
        each Secretary concerned who has jurisdiction of such an 
        installation, acting jointly.

SEC. 573. PROVISIONAL OR INTERIM CLEARANCES TO PROVIDE CHILDCARE 
              SERVICES AT MILITARY CHILDCARE CENTERS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall implement a policy 
to permit the issuance on a provisional or interim basis of clearances 
for the provision of childcare services at military childcare centers.
    (b) Elements.--The policy required by subsection (a) shall provide 
for the following:
            (1) Any clearance issued under the policy shall be 
        temporary and contingent upon the satisfaction of such 
        requirements for the issuance of a clearance on a permanent 
        basis as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Any individual issued a clearance on a provisional or 
        interim basis under the policy shall be subject to such 
        supervision in the provision of childcare services using such 
        clearance as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Clearance Defined.--In this section, the term ``clearance'', 
with respect to an individual and the provision of childcare services, 
means the formal approval of the individual, after appropriate 
background checks and other review, to provide childcare services to 
children at a military childcare center of the Department of Defense.

SEC. 574. PILOT PROGRAM ON PREVENTION OF CHILD ABUSE AND TRAINING ON 
              SAFE CHILDCARE PRACTICES AMONG MILITARY FAMILIES.

    (a) Pilot Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall, acting 
        through the Defense Health Agency, carry out a pilot program on 
        universal home visits for purposes of providing eligible 
        covered beneficiaries and their families training on safe 
        childcare practices aimed at reducing child abuse and 
        fatalities due to abuse and neglect, assessments of risk 
        factors for child abuse, and connections with community 
        resources to meet identified needs.
            (2) Scope.--The pilot program shall be designed to 
        facilitate connections between covered beneficiaries and their 
        families and community resources (including existing resources 
        provided by the Armed Forces). The pilot program, including the 
        practices covered by training pursuant to the pilot program, 
        shall conform to evidence-based scientific criteria, including 
        criteria available through publications in peer-reviewed 
        scientific journals.
            (3) Elements.--The pilot program shall include the 
        following:
                    (A) Between one and three home visits, and not more 
                than seven other contacts, except in unusual cases 
                (such as deployments), with such home visits by a team 
                led by a nurse, whenever practicable, to provide 
                screening, community resource referral, and training to 
                eligible covered beneficiaries and their families on 
                the following:
                            (i) General maternal and infant health.
                            (ii) Safe sleeping environments.
                            (iii) Feeding and bathing.
                            (iv) Adequate supervision.
                            (v) Common hazards.
                            (vi) Self-care.
                            (vii) Recognition of post-partum 
                        depression, substance abuse, and domestic 
                        violence in a mother or her partner and 
                        community violence.
                            (viii) Skills for management of infant 
                        crying.
                            (ix) Other positive parenting skills and 
                        practices.
                            (x) The importance of participating in 
                        ongoing healthcare for an infant and in ongoing 
                        healthcare for post-partum depression.
                            (xi) Finding, qualifying for, and 
                        participating in available community resources 
                        with respect to infant care, childcare, and 
                        parenting support.
                            (xii) Planning for parenting or 
                        guardianship of children during deployment.
                            (xiii) Such other matters as the Secretary 
                        considers appropriate.
                    (B) If a parent is deployed at the time of birth--
                            (i) the first home visit pursuant to 
                        subparagraph (A) shall, to the extent 
                        practicable, incorporate both parents, in 
                        person with the local parent and by electronic 
                        means (such as Skype or FaceTime) with the 
                        deployed parent; and
                            (ii) another such home visit shall be 
                        conducted upon the return of the parent from 
                        deployment, and shall include both parents.
                    (C) An electronic directory of community resources 
                available to eligible covered beneficiaries and their 
                families in order to assist teams described in 
                subparagraph (A) in connecting beneficiaries and 
                families with such resources.
                    (D) An electronic integrated data system to--
                            (i) support teams in referring 
                        beneficiaries to the services and resources to 
                        be offered under subsection (c)(3) and track 
                        beneficiary usage;
                            (ii) track interactions between teams 
                        described in subparagraph (A) and eligible 
                        beneficiaries and their families; and
                            (iii) otherwise evaluate the implementation 
                        and effectiveness of the pilot program.
    (b) Mandatory Participation.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary shall require all eligible covered beneficiaries at 
        each installation at which the pilot program is being conducted 
        to be contacted by the pilot program under this section.
            (2) Exception.--The Secretary shall encourage participation 
        by both parents of a child in the pilot program, but 
        participation by one parent shall be sufficient to meet the 
        requirement under paragraph (1).
    (c) Available Services and Resources.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the pilot program under 
        this section, the Secretary shall offer services and resources 
        to an eligible covered beneficiary based on the particular 
        needs of the beneficiary and the beneficiary's family.
            (2) Voluntary participation.--Participation by an eligible 
        covered beneficiary and family in any service or resource 
        offered under paragraph (1) shall be at the election of the 
        beneficiary.
            (3) Assessment of eligible covered beneficiaries.--
                    (A) In general.--In carrying out the pilot program, 
                the Secretary shall conduct, or attempt to conduct, an 
                assessment of every eligible covered beneficiary and 
                beneficiary family participating in the pilot program, 
                regardless of risk factors, to determine which services 
                and resources to offer such beneficiary and family 
                under paragraph (1).
                    (B) Particular needs.--In conducting an assessment 
                of an eligible covered beneficiary and family under 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall assess their 
                needs and eligibility for particular services and 
                resources and connect the beneficiary and family to 
                services and resources for which they have a need and 
                are eligible, either within the Department of Defense 
                or elsewhere.
    (d) Involvement of Medical Staff.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure that the pilot 
        program under this section is conducted by licensed medical 
        staff of the Department of Defense and not family advocacy 
        staff.
            (2) Home visits.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
                the pilot program includes the following:
                            (i) An initial contact made prenatally 
                        (except when not possible, in which case the 
                        contact shall occur as soon after birth as 
                        possible) by a team described in subsection 
                        (a)(3)(A), which shall include screening for 
                        the matters specified in that subsection.
                            (ii) Home visits by a nurse or other 
                        licensed medical professional trained in the 
                        practices covered by the program at the birth 
                        of a child, which visits shall follow a 
                        research-based structured clinical protocol and 
                        include use of the electronic integrated data 
                        described in subsection (a)(3)(D).
                    (B) Timing of visits.--The first visits under 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) shall occur between two and five 
                weeks after hospital discharge with appropriate follow-
                up generally accomplished within two home visits.
                    (C) Duration of visits.--Visits under this 
                paragraph shall have a duration between 90 minutes and 
                2 hours.
                    (D) Final visit.--Not later than 45 days after the 
                last visit conducted by a nurse under subparagraph 
                (A)(ii) with respect to an eligible covered 
                beneficiary, appropriate staff shall follow-up with the 
                beneficiary and the beneficiary's family to assess if 
                they are using the services recommended under 
                subsection (c).
    (e) Implementation Assessments.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out not fewer 
        than five implementation assessments in accordance with this 
        subsection in order to assess the effectiveness of the elements 
        and requirements of the pilot program.
            (2) Schedule.--The implementation assessment required by 
        this subsection shall be completed by not later than two years 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Locations.--The implementation assessments shall be 
        carried out at not less than five military installations 
        selected by the Secretary for purposes of this subsection. In 
        selecting such installations, the Secretary shall select 
        installations representing a range of circumstances, including 
        installations in an urban location and a rural location, 
        installations with a large population and with a small 
        population, installations currently experiencing high incidence 
        of child abuse, neglect, or both and low incidence of child 
        abuse, neglect, or both, installations with a hospital or 
        clinic and without a hospital or clinic, joint installations, 
        and installations serving only one Armed Force.
            (4) Assessment.--In carrying out the implementation 
        assessments, the Secretary shall seek to obtain an assessment 
        of each of the following:
                    (A) The ability of nurses or other licensed medical 
                professionals to contact families eligible for 
                participation in the pilot program.
                    (B) The extent to which families eligible for 
                participation in the program actually participate in 
                the pilot program.
                    (C) The ability of medical personnel to adhere to 
                the clinical protocols of the pilot program.
                    (D) The extent to which families participating in 
                the pilot program are being connected to services and 
                resources under the pilot program.
                    (E) The extent to which families participating in 
                the pilot program are using services and resources 
                under the pilot program.
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the pilot program to be carried out 
        pursuant to this section. The report shall include a 
        comprehensive description of each implementation assessment to 
        be carried out pursuant to subsection (e), including--
                    (A) the installation at which such implementation 
                assessment is being carried out;
                    (B) a justification for the selection of such 
                installation for purposes of subsection (e); and
                    (C) the elements and requirements of the pilot 
                program being carried out through such implementation 
                assessment, including strategy and metrics for 
                evaluating effectiveness.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to 
        the committees specified in paragraph (1) a report on the pilot 
        program. The report shall include the following:
                    (A) A comprehensive description and assessment of 
                each of the implementation assessments under subsection 
                (e).
                    (B) A comprehensive description and assessment of 
                the pilot program.
                    (C) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate in light of pilot program, including 
                recommendations for modifications of the pilot program 
                or extension of the pilot program on an permanent basis 
                at additional locations.
    (g) Implementation Defense-wide.--If the Secretary determines as a 
result of the pilot program that any element of the pilot program is 
effective, the Secretary shall take appropriate actions to implement 
the pilot program as a program throughout and across the military 
installations of the Department.
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``community'', with respect to a military 
        installation, means the catchment area for community services 
        of the installation, including services provided on the 
        installation and services provided by State, county, and local 
        jurisdictions in which the installation is located or in the 
        vicinity of the installation.
            (2) The term ``eligible covered beneficiary'' means a 
        covered beneficiary (as that term is defined in section 1072 of 
        title 10, United States Code) who obtains pre-natal and 
        obstetrical care in a military medical treatment facility in 
        connection with a birth covered by the pilot program.

SEC. 575. PILOT PROGRAM ON PARTICIPATION OF MILITARY SPOUSES IN 
              TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Pilot Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry 
out a pilot program to assess the feasability and advisability of 
permitting military spouses to participate in activities under the 
Transition Assistance Program (TAP) under section 1144 of title 10, 
United States Code, on military installations.
    (b) Locations.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program at 
not fewer than five military installations selected by the Secretary 
for purposes of the pilot program.
    (c) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
during the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Participation.--
            (1) In general.--Under the pilot program, the spouse of a 
        member of the Armed Forces assigned to a military installation 
        at which the pilot program is carried out who is participating 
        in activities under the Transition Assistance Program may 
        participate in such activities under the Program as the spouse 
        considers appropriate, regardless of whether the member is also 
        participating in such activities at the time of the spouse's 
        participation.
            (2) Adequate facilities.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
        the facilities for the carrying out of activities under the 
        Transition Assistance Program at each installation at which the 
        pilot program is carried out are adequate to permit the 
        participation in such activities of any spouse of a member of 
        the Armed Forces at the installation who seeks to participate 
        in such activities.
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than six months after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit 
        to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
        of Representatives a report on the pilot program, including a 
        comprehensive description of the pilot program.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than six months after the 
        completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to 
        the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the pilot program. The report shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A comprehensive description of the pilot 
                program, including the installations at which the pilot 
                program was carried out and the rates of participation 
                of military spouses in activities under the Transition 
                Assistance Program pursuant to the pilot program.
                    (B) Such recommendations for extension or expansion 
                of the pilot program, including making the pilot 
                program permanent, as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate in light of the pilot program.

SEC. 576. SMALL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF MILITARY SPOUSES ON MILITARY 
              INSTALLATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Assessment of Small Business Activities.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to Congress a report setting forth an assessment 
of the feasibility and advisability of permitting military spouses to 
engage in small business activities on military installations in the 
United States and in partnership with commissaries, exchange stores, 
and other morale, welfare, and recreation facilities of the Armed 
Forces in the United States.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment shall--
            (1) take into account the usage by military spouses of 
        installation facilities, utilities, and other resources in the 
        conduct of small business activities on military installations 
        in the United States and such other matters in connection with 
        the conduct of such business activities by military spouses as 
        the Secretary considers appropriate; and
            (2) seek to identify mechanisms to ensure that costs and 
        fees associated with the usage by military spouses of such 
        facilities, utilities, and other resources in connection with 
        such business activities does not meaningfully curtail or 
        eliminate the opportunity for military spouses to profit 
        reasonably from such business activities.

                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

SEC. 581. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF THE DISTINGUISHED SERVICE CROSS 
              FOR JUSTIN T. GALLEGOS FOR ACTS OF VALOR DURING OPERATION 
              ENDURING FREEDOM.

    (a) Authorization.--Notwithstanding the time limitations specified 
in section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time 
limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons 
who served in the Armed Forces, the Secretary of the Army may award the 
Distinguished Service Cross under section 3742 of such title to Justin 
T. Gallegos for the acts of valor during Operation Enduring Freedom 
described in subsection (b).
    (b) Action Described.--The acts of valor referred to in subsection 
(a) are the actions of Justin T. Gallegos on October 3, 2009, while 
serving in the grade of Staff Sergeant in Afghanistan while serving 
with B Troop, 3d Squadron, 61st Cavalry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat 
Team, 4th Infantry Division.

SEC. 582. AWARD OF MEDALS OR OTHER COMMENDATIONS TO HANDLERS OF 
              MILITARY WORKING DOGS.

    (a) Program of Award Required.--Each Secretary of a military 
department shall carry out a program to provide for the award of one or 
more medals or other commendations to handlers of military working dogs 
under the jurisdiction of such Secretary to recognize valor or 
meritorious achievement by such handlers and dogs.
    (b) Medals and Commendations.--Any medal or commendation awarded 
pursuant to a program under subsection (a) shall be of such design, and 
include such elements, as the Secretary of the military department 
concerned shall specify.
    (c) Presentation and Acceptance.--Any medal or commendation awarded 
pursuant to a program under subsection (a) may be presented to and 
accepted by the handler concerned on behalf of the handler and the 
military working dog concerned.
    (d) Regulations.--Medals and commendations shall be awarded under 
programs under subsection (a) in accordance with regulations prescribed 
by the Secretary of Defense for purposes of this section.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

SEC. 591. AUTHORITY TO AWARD DAMAGED PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT TO 
              MEMBERS SEPARATING FROM THE ARMED FORCES AND VETERANS AS 
              MEMENTOS OF MILITARY SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 152 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2568a. Damaged personal protective equipment: award to members 
              separating from the armed forces and veterans
    ``The Secretary of a military department may award to a member of 
the armed forces under the jurisdiction of the Secretary who is 
separating from the armed forces, and to any veteran formerly under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary, demilitarizied personal protective 
equipment (PPE) of the member or veteran that was damaged in combat or 
otherwise during the deployment of the member or veteran. The award of 
equipment under this section shall be without cost to the member or 
veteran concerned.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 152 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``2568a. Damaged personal protective equipment: award to members 
                            separating from the armed forces and 
                            veterans.''.

SEC. 592. STANDARDIZATION OF FREQUENCY OF ACADEMY VISITS OF THE AIR 
              FORCE ACADEMY BOARD OF VISITORS WITH ACADEMY VISITS OF 
              BOARDS OF OTHER MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES.

    Section 9355 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subsection (d) and inserting the following new subsection:
    ``(d) The Board shall visit the Academy annually. With the approval 
of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Board or its members may make 
other visits to the Academy in connection with the duties of the Board 
or to consult with the Superintendent of the Academy. Board members 
shall have access to the Academy grounds and the cadets, faculty, 
staff, and other personnel of the Academy for the purposes of the 
duties of the Board.''.

SEC. 593. REDESIGNATION OF THE COMMANDANT OF THE UNITED STATES AIR 
              FORCE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AS THE PRESIDENT OF THE 
              UNITED STATES AIR FORCE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) Redesignation.--Section 9314b(a) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection heading, by striking ``Commandant'' and 
        inserting ``President'';
            (2) by striking ``Commandant'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``President''; and
            (3) in the heading of paragraph (3), by striking 
        ``commandant'' and inserting ``president''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the Commandant 
of the United States Air Force Institute of Technology shall be deemed 
to be a reference to the President of the United States Air Force 
Institute of Technology.

SEC. 594. LIMITATION ON JUSTIFICATIONS ENTERED BY MILITARY RECRUITERS 
              FOR ENLISTMENT OR ACCESSION OF INDIVIDUALS INTO THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    (a) In General.--In any case in which a database or system 
maintained by an Armed Force regarding the reasons why individuals 
elect to enlist or access into the Armed Force provides for military 
recruiters to select among pre-specified options for reasons for such 
election, military recruiters entering data into such database or 
system may select only among such pre-specified options as reasons for 
the enlistment or accession of any particular individual.
    (b) Military Recruiter Defined.--In this section, the term 
``military recruiter'' means a person who as the duty to recruit 
persons into the Armed Forces for military service.

SEC. 595. NATIONAL COMMISSION ON MILITARY, NATIONAL, AND PUBLIC SERVICE 
              MATTERS.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 551(c) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
2130) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting after ``United States 
        Code)'' the following: ``or active status (as that term is 
        defined in subsection (d)(4) of such section)'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ```national service''' and 
                inserting ```public service'''; and
                    (B) by striking ``or State Government'' and 
                inserting ``, State, Tribal, or local government'';
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ```public service''' and inserting 
                ```national service'''; and
                    (B) by striking ``employment'' and inserting 
                ``participation''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) The term `establishment date' means September 19, 
        2017.''.
    (b) Exception to Paperwork Reduction Act.--Section 555(e) of that 
Act (130 Stat. 2134) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(4) Paperwork reduction act.--For purposes of developing 
        its recommendations, the information collection of the 
        Commission may be treated as a pilot project under section 
        3505(a) of title 44, United States Code. In addition, the 
        Commission shall not be subject to the requirements of section 
        3506(c)(2)(A) of such title.''.

SEC. 596. BURIAL OF UNCLAIMED REMAINS OF INMATES AT THE UNITED STATES 
              DISCIPLINARY BARRACKS CEMETERY, FORT LEAVENWORTH, KANSAS.

    Section 985 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``A person who is 
        ineligible'' in the matter preceding paragraph (1) and 
        inserting ``Except as provided in subsection (c), a person who 
        is ineligible'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) Unclaimed Remains of Military Prisoners.--Subsection (b) 
shall not preclude the burial at the United States Disciplinary 
Barracks Cemetery at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, of a military prisoner, 
including a military prisoner who is a person described in section 
2411(b) of title 38, who dies while in custody of a military department 
and whose remains are not claimed by the person authorized to direct 
disposition of the remains or by other persons legally authorized to 
dispose of the remains.''.

SEC. 597. SPACE-AVAILABLE TRAVEL ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AIRCRAFT FOR 
              VETERANS WITH SERVICE-CONNECTED DISABILITIES RATED AS 
              TOTAL.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (c) of section 2641b of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs 
        (5) and (6), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph (4):
            ``(4) Subject to subsection (f), veterans with a permanent 
        service-connected disability rated as total.''.
    (b) Conditions and Limitations.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection (f):
    ``(f) Veterans With Service-connected Disabilities Rated as 
Total.--(1) Travel may not be provided under this section to a veteran 
eligible for travel pursuant to subsection (c)(4) in priority over any 
member eligible for travel under subsection (c)(1) or any dependent of 
such a member eligible for travel under this section.
    ``(2) The authority in subsection (c)(4) may not be construed as 
affecting or in any way imposing on the Department of Defense, any 
armed force, or any commercial company with which they contract an 
obligation or expectation that they will retrofit or alter, in any way, 
military aircraft or commercial aircraft, or related equipment or 
facilities, used or leased by the Department or such armed force to 
accommodate passengers provided travel under such authority on account 
of disability.
    ``(3) The authority in subsection (c)(4) may not be construed as 
preempting the authority of a flight commander to determine who boards 
the aircraft and any other matters in connection with safe operation of 
the aircraft.''.

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

SEC. 601. FISCAL YEAR 2019 INCREASE IN MILITARY BASIC PAY.

    (a) Waiver of Section 1009 Adjustment.--The adjustment to become 
effective during fiscal year 2019 required by section 1009 of title 37, 
United States Code, in the rates of monthly basic pay authorized 
members of the uniformed services shall not be made.
    (b) Increase in Basic Pay.--Effective on January 1, 2019, the rates 
of monthly basic pay for members of the uniformed services are 
increased by 2.6 percent.

SEC. 602. REPEAL OF AUTHORITY FOR PAYMENT OF PERSONAL MONEY ALLOWANCES 
              TO NAVY OFFICERS SERVING IN CERTAIN POSITIONS.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 414 of title 37, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b); and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on December 31, 2018, and shall apply with respect to 
personal money allowances payable under section 414 of title 37, United 
States Code, for years beginning after that date.

SEC. 603. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROPOSAL FOR A PAY TABLE FOR MEMBERS OF 
              THE ARMED FORCES USING STEPS IN GRADE BASED ON TIME IN 
              GRADE RATHER THAN TIME IN SERVICE.

    (a) Proposal Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report setting forth a proposal for 
a pay table for members of the Armed Forces that uses steps in grade 
for each pay grade based on time of service within such pay grade 
rather than on time of service in the Armed Forces as a whole.
    (b) Comptroller General Assessment.--Not later than April 1, 2019, 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report setting forth an assessment 
by the Comptroller General of the proposed pay table required pursuant 
to subsection (a), including an assessment of the effects of using the 
proposed pay table, rather than the current pay table for members of 
the Armed Forces, on recruitment and retention of members of the Armed 
Forces as a whole and on recruitment and retention of members of the 
Armed Forces with particular sets of skills (including cyber and other 
technical skills).

SEC. 604. FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR LESSORS UNDER THE MILITARY HOUSING 
              PRIVATIZATION INITIATIVE DURING 2019.

    (a) Support Authorized.--Subject to subsection (c), for each month 
during 2019, the Secretary of Defense may pay to a lessor of covered 
housing up to 2 percent of the amount calculated under section 
403(b)(3)(A)(i) of title 37, United States Code, for the area in which 
the covered housing exists for each member to whom such lessor leases 
covered housing for such month.
    (b) Covered Housing.--In this section, the term ``covered housing'' 
means a unit of housing--
            (1) acquired or constructed under the alternative authority 
        of subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code 
        (known as the Military Housing Privatization Initiative);
            (2) that is leased to a member of a uniformed service who 
        resides in such unit; and
            (3) for which the lessor charges such member rent that 
        equals or exceeds the amount calculated under section 
        403(b)(3)(A) of title 37, United States Code.
    (c) Support Contingent on Notice to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may not make payments to a 
        lessor for particular covered housing in 2019 authorized by 
        subsection (a) until the Secretary submits to the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        notice on such payments.
            (2) Elements.--The notice on payments to a lessor for 
        particular covered housing in 2019 for purposes of paragraph 
        (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A documented request from the lessor for 
                additional funding in connection with such housing and 
                endorsed by the commander of the military installation 
                concerned.
                    (B) A description of the formula to be used by the 
                Secretary to calculate the amount of such payments.
                    (C) A description of the current financial 
                condition of the lessor in connection with such 
                housing, including the following:
                            (i) The current debt coverage ratio of the 
                        lessor for such housing.
                            (ii) An assessment of the lessor's ability 
                        to fund future sustainment costs for such 
                        housing in the absence of payments as described 
                        in subsection (a).
                            (iii) An assessment of whether any earnings 
                        for the lessor from other covered housing, if 
                        any, can offset predicted shortfalls in funding 
                        for such housing.
                    (D) An assessment of the effects, if any, of recent 
                reductions in basic allowance for housing on the 
                financial viability of such housing for the lessor.
                    (E) A plan to ensure the long-term financial 
                stability of such housing.
                    (F) A recommendation whether the contract between 
                the lessor and government for such housing area should 
                be retained without modification, or modified, to 
                ensure long-term financial viability of such housing.

SEC. 605. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY OF PRESIDENT TO DETERMINE 
              ALTERNATIVE PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ANNUAL BASIC PAY OF MEMBERS 
              OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.

    (a) Modification.--Section 1009(e) of title 37, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or serious economic 
        conditions affecting the general welfare'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and--
            (1) if the date of the enactment of this Act occurs before 
        September 1 of a year, shall apply with respect to plans for 
        alternative pay adjustments for any year beginning after such 
        year; and
            (2) if the date of the enactment of this Act occurs after 
        August 31 of a year, shall apply with respect to plans for 
        alternative pay adjustments for any year beginning after the 
        year following such year.

SEC. 606. ELIGIBILITY OF RESERVE COMPONENT MEMBERS FOR HIGH-DEPLOYMENT 
              ALLOWANCE FOR LENGTHY OR NUMEROUS DEPLOYMENTS AND 
              FREQUENT MOBILIZATIONS.

    Section 436(a)(2)(C)(ii) of title 37, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after ``under'' the first place it appears the 
following: ``section 12304b of title 10 or''.

SEC. 607. ELIGIBILITY OF RESERVE COMPONENT MEMBERS FOR NONREDUCTION IN 
              PAY WHILE SERVING IN THE UNIFORMED SERVICES OR NATIONAL 
              GUARD.

    Section 5538(a) of title 5, United States Code, is amended in the 
matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting after ``under'' the 
following: ``section 12304b of title 10 or''.

SEC. 608. TEMPORARY ADJUSTMENT IN RATE OF BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING 
              FOLLOWING IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT 
              UNDERDETERMINATION OF CIVILIAN HOUSING COSTS FOR HOUSING 
              AREAS.

    Section 403(b) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(8)(A) Under the authority of this paragraph, the Secretary of 
Defense may prescribe a temporary adjustment in the current rates of 
basic allowance for housing for a military housing area or portion of a 
military housing area if the Secretary determines that the actual costs 
of adequate housing for civilians in that military housing area or 
portion thereof differ from such current rates of basic allowance for 
housing by an amount in excess of 20 percent of such current rates of 
basic allowance for housing.
    ``(B) Any temporary increase in rates of basic allowance for 
housing under this paragraph shall remain in effect only until the next 
annual adjustment in rates of basic allowance for housing under this 
subsection by law.
    ``(C) This paragraph shall cease to be effective on December 31, 
2019.''.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

SEC. 611. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN EXPIRING BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
              AUTHORITIES.

    (a) Authorities Relating to Title 37 Consolidated Special Pay, 
Incentive Pay, and Bonus Authorities.--The following sections of title 
37, United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2018'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2019'':
            (1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for 
        enlisted members.
            (2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for 
        officers.
            (3) Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive 
        pay and bonus authorities for officers.
            (4) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive 
        pay authorities for officers in health professions.
            (5) Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for 
        cadets and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve Officers' 
        Training Corps.
            (6) Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
            (7) Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special 
        duty pay.
            (8) Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or 
        proficiency bonus.
            (9) Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for 
        members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to 
        high priority units.
    (b) Authorities Relating To Reserve Forces.--Section 910(g) of 
title 37, United States Code, relating to income replacement payments 
for reserve component members experiencing extended and frequent 
mobilization for active duty service, is amended by striking ``December 
31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.
    (c) Title 10 Authorities Relating to Health Care Professionals.--
The following sections of title 10, United States Code, are amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019'':
            (1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer 
        candidate accession program.
            (2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education 
        loans for certain health professionals who serve in the 
        Selected Reserve.
    (d) Authorities Relating to Nuclear Officers.--Section 333(i) of 
title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.
    (e) Authority to Provide Temporary Increase in Rates of Basic 
Allowance for Housing.--Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2019''.

     Subtitle C--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

SEC. 621. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS IN CALCULATION AND PUBLICATION OF 
              SPECIAL SURVIVOR INDEMNITY ALLOWANCE COST OF LIVING 
              ADJUSTMENTS.

    (a) Months for Which Adjustment Applicable.--Paragraph (2) of 
section 1450(m) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (I), by striking ``December'' and 
        inserting ``November''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (J), by striking ``for months during 
        any calendar year after 2018'' and inserting ``for months after 
        November 2018''.
    (b) Cost of Living Adjustment.--Paragraph (6) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``after 2018'' 
        and inserting ``after november 2018''; and
            (2) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting the 
        following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(A) In general.--Whenever retired pay is 
                increased for a month under section 1401a of this title 
                (or any other provision of law), the amount of the 
                allowance payable under paragraph (1) for that month 
                shall also be increased.
                    ``(B) Amount of increase.--With respect to an 
                eligible survivor of a member of the uniformed 
                services, the increase for a month shall be--
                            ``(i) the amount payable pursuant to 
                        paragraph (2) for months during the preceding 
                        12-month period; plus
                            ``(ii) an amount equal to a percentage of 
                        the amount determined pursuant to clause (i), 
                        which percentage is the percentage by which the 
                        retired pay of the member would have increased 
                        for the month, as described in subparagraph 
                        (A), if the member was alive (and otherwise 
                        entitled to such pay).
                    ``(C) Rounding down.--The monthly amount of an 
                allowance payable under this subsection, if not a 
                multiple of $1, shall be rounded to the next lower 
                multiple of $1.
                    ``(D) Public notice on amount of allowance 
                payable.--Whenever an increase in the amount of the 
                allowance payable under paragraph (1) is made pursuant 
                to this paragraph, the Secretary of Defense shall 
                publish the amount of the allowance so payable by 
                reason of such increase, including the months for which 
                payable.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on December 1, 2018.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 631. RATES OF PER DIEM FOR LONG-TERM TEMPORARY DUTY ASSIGNMENTS.

    (a) Report on Cost-benefit Analysis of November 2014 Change of 
Policy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives a report setting forth an 
        analysis, conducted by the Secretary for purposes of the 
        report, of the costs and benefits of the change in policy of 
        the Department of Defense on rates of per diem for long-term 
        temporary duty assignments that took effect on November 1, 
        2014. The study shall be consistent with the principles and 
        requirements of Office of Management and Budget Circular A-94.
            (2) Element assessing cost-benefit.--The report under 
        paragraph (1) shall specify, in particular, whether or not the 
        benefits of the change in policy described in that paragraph 
        have outweighed and will continue to outweigh the costs of the 
        change of policy.
    (b) Contingent Reversion to Prior Policy.--
            (1) Lack of report.--If the report required by subsection 
        (a)(1) is not submitted to the committees of Congress referred 
        to in that subsection by the contingency date, effective as of 
        the contingency date, the policy of the Department on rates of 
        per diem for long-term temporary duty assignments shall be the 
        policy as in effect as of October 31, 2014.
            (2) Finding of costs outweighing benefits.--If the 
        specification in the report as required by subsection (a)(2) is 
        that the benefits of the change in policy described in 
        subsection (a)(1) have not outweighed or will not continue to 
        outweigh the costs of the change of policy, effective as of the 
        date of the report, the policy of the Department on rates of 
        per diem for long-term temporary duty assignments shall be the 
        policy as in effect as of October 31, 2014.
            (3) Contingency date defined.--In this subsection, the term 
        ``contingency date'' means the date that is 120 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 632. PROHIBITION ON PER DIEM ALLOWANCE REDUCTIONS BASED ON THE 
              DURATION OF TEMPORARY DUTY ASSIGNMENT OR CIVILIAN TRAVEL.

    (a) Members.--Section 474(d)(3) of title 37, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
Secretary of a military department shall not alter the amount of the 
per diem allowance, or the maximum amount of reimbursement, for a 
locality based on the duration of the temporary duty assignment in the 
locality of a member of the armed forces under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary.''.
    (b) Civilian Employees.--Section 5702(a)(2) of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ``The Secretary of Defense shall not alter the amount of the 
per diem allowance, or the maximum amount of reimbursement, for a 
locality based on the duration of the travel in the locality of an 
employee of the Department.''.
    (c) Repeals.--
            (1) Existing policy and regulations.--The policy, and any 
        regulations issued pursuant to such policy, implemented by the 
        Secretary of Defense on November 1, 2014, with respect to 
        reductions in per diem allowances based on duration of 
        temporary duty assignment or civilian travel shall have no 
        force or effect.
            (2) Attempted statutory fix.--Section 672 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-
        328; 37 U.S.C. 474 note; 130 Stat. 2178) is repealed.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

SEC. 701. CONSOLIDATION OF COST-SHARING REQUIREMENTS UNDER TRICARE 
              SELECT AND TRICARE PRIME.

    (a) TRICARE Select.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1075 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c), by striking paragraphs (1) 
                and (2) and inserting the following new paragraphs:
            ``(1) With respect to beneficiaries in the active-duty 
        family member category or the retired category other than 
        beneficiaries described in paragraph (2)(B), the cost-sharing 
        requirements shall be calculated pursuant to subsection (d)(1).
            ``(2)(A) With respect to beneficiaries described in 
        subparagraph (B) in the active-duty family member category or 
        the retired category, the cost-sharing requirements shall be 
        calculated as if the beneficiary were enrolled in TRICARE Extra 
        or TRICARE Standard as if TRICARE Extra or TRICARE Standard, as 
        the case may be, were still being carried out by the Secretary.
            ``(B) Beneficiaries described in this subparagraph are the 
        following beneficiaries:
                    ``(i) Retired members and the family members of 
                such retired members covered by section 1086(c)(1) of 
                this title by reason of being retired under chapter 61 
                of this title or being a dependent of such a retired 
                member.
                    ``(ii) Survivors covered by section 1086(c)(2) of 
                this title.'';
                    (B) by striking subsection (e); and
                    (C) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and (h) 
                as subsections (e), (f), and (g), respectively.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Subsection (d)(2) of such 
        section is amended by striking ``, and the amounts specified 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (e),''.
    (b) TRICARE Prime.--Section 1075a(a) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(2) With respect to beneficiaries in the active-duty 
        family member category or the retired category (as described in 
        section 1075(b)(1) of this title) other than beneficiaries 
        described in paragraph (3)(B), the cost-sharing requirements 
        shall be calculated pursuant to subsection (b)(1).''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking subparagraph (B) and 
        inserting the following new subparagraph:
            ``(B) Beneficiaries described in this subparagraph are the 
        following beneficiaries:
                    ``(i) Retired members and the family members of 
                such retired members covered by section 1086(c)(1) of 
                this title by reason of being retired under chapter 61 
                of this title or being a dependent of such a retired 
                member.
                    ``(ii) Survivors covered by section 1086(c)(2) of 
                this title.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2019.

SEC. 702. ADMINISTRATION OF TRICARE DENTAL PLANS THROUGH THE FEDERAL 
              EMPLOYEES DENTAL INSURANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Eligibility of Additional Beneficiaries Under the Federal 
Employees Dental Insurance Program.--Section 8951(8) of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``1076c'' and inserting ``1076a or 
1076c''.
    (b) Administration of TRICARE Dental Plans.--Subsection (b) of 
section 1076a of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(b) Administration of Plans.--The plans established under this 
section shall be administered by the Secretary of Defense through an 
agreement with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management to 
allow persons described in subsection (a) to enroll in an insurance 
plan under chapter 89A of title 5, in accordance with terms prescribed 
by the Secretary, including terms, to the extent practical, as defined 
by the Director through regulation, consistent with subsection (d) and, 
to the extent practicable in relation to such chapter 89A, other 
provisions of this section.''.
    (c) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
with respect to the first contract year for chapter 89A of title 5, 
United States Code, that begins on or after January 1, 2022.
    (d) Transition.--To ensure the successful transition of programs, 
in carrying out the TRICARE dental program under section 1076a of title 
10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
contractor for such program provides claims information under such 
program to carriers providing dental coverage under chapter 89A of 
title 5, United States Code.

SEC. 703. CONTRACEPTION COVERAGE PARITY UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 1074d(b)(3) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
following: ``(including all methods of contraception approved by the 
Food and Drug Administration, contraceptive care (including with 
respect to insertion, removal, and follow up), sterilization 
procedures, and patient education and counseling in connection 
therewith)''.
    (b) Prohibition on Cost-sharing for Certain Services.--
            (1) TRICARE select.--Section 1075(c) of such title is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) For all beneficiaries under this section, there is no 
        cost-sharing for any method of contraception provided by a 
        network provider.''.
            (2) TRICARE prime.--Section 1075a(b) of such title is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) For all beneficiaries under this section, there is no cost-
sharing for any method of contraception provided by a network 
provider.''.
            (3) Pharmacy benefits program.--Section 1074g(a)(6) of such 
        title is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subparagraph:
    ``(D) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), there is no cost-
sharing for any prescription contraceptive on the uniform formulary 
provided by a network retail pharmacy provider or the mail order 
pharmacy program.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2020.

SEC. 704. PILOT PROGRAM ON OPIOID MANAGEMENT IN THE MILITARY HEALTH 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) Pilot Program.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning not later than 180 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
        Defense Health Agency shall implement a comprehensive pilot 
        program to minimize early opioid exposure in beneficiaries 
        under the TRICARE program and to prevent progression to misuse 
        or abuse of opioid medications.
            (2) Opioid safety across continuum of care.--The pilot 
        program shall include elements to maximize opioid safety across 
        the entire continuum of care consisting of patient, physician 
        or dentist, and pharmacist.
    (b) Elements of Pilot Program.--The pilot program shall include the 
following:
            (1) Identification of potential opioid misuse or abuse in 
        pharmacies of military treatment facilities, retail network 
        pharmacies, and the home delivery pharmacy and transmission of 
        alerts regarding such potential mistreatment to opioid 
        prescribing physicians or dentists.
            (2) Direct engagement with, education for, and management 
        of beneficiaries under the TRICARE program to help such 
        beneficiaries avoid opioid misuse or abuse.
            (3) Provision of in-home disposal kits to deactivate excess 
        opioids and prevent unauthorized use.
            (4) Proactive outreach by specialist pharmacists to such 
        beneficiaries when identifying potential opioid misuse or 
        abuse.
            (5) Monitoring of such beneficiaries through the use of 
        predictive analytics to identify the potential for abuse and 
        addiction before such beneficiaries begin an opioid 
        prescription.
            (6) Detection of fraud, waste, and abuse.
    (c) Report on Pilot Program.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days before completion 
        of the pilot program, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
        the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report that describes the conduct of the 
        pilot program.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of the pilot program, including 
                outcome measures developed to determine the overall 
                effectiveness of the pilot program.
                    (B) A description of the ability of the pilot 
                program to identify opioid misuse and abuse among 
                beneficiaries under the TRICARE program in each 
                pharmacy venue of the pharmacy program of the military 
                health system.
                    (C) A description of the impact of the use of 
                predictive analytics to monitor such beneficiaries to 
                identify the potential for opioid abuse and addiction 
                before such beneficiaries begin an opioid prescription.
                    (D) A description of any reduction in the misuse or 
                abuse of opioid medications among such beneficiaries as 
                a result of the pilot program.
    (d) Duration.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Director shall carry out the pilot program for a period of not 
        more than three years.
            (2) Expansion.--The Director may implement the pilot 
        program on a permanent basis if the Director determines that 
        the pilot program successfully reduces early opioid exposure in 
        beneficiaries under the TRICARE program and prevents 
        progression to misuse or abuse of opioid medications.
    (e) TRICARE Program Defined.--In this section, the term ``TRICARE 
program'' has the meaning given that term in section 1072 of title 10, 
United States Code.

SEC. 705. PILOT PROGRAM ON TREATMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES FOR 
              POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER RELATED TO MILITARY SEXUAL 
              TRAUMA.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a pilot 
program to assess the feasibility and advisability of using intensive 
outpatient programs to treat members of the Armed Forces suffering from 
post-traumatic stress disorder resulting from military sexual trauma, 
including treatment for substance abuse, depression, and other issues 
related to such conditions.
    (b) Discharge Through Partnerships.--The pilot program authorized 
by subsection (a) shall be carried out through partnerships with 
public, private, and non-profit health care organizations and 
institutions that--
            (1) provide health care to members of the Armed Forces;
            (2) provide evidence-based treatment for psychological and 
        neurological conditions that are common among members of the 
        Armed Forces, including post-traumatic stress disorder, 
        traumatic brain injury, substance abuse, and depression;
            (3) provide health care, support, and other benefits to 
        family members of members of the Armed Forces; and
            (4) provide health care under the TRICARE program (as that 
        term is defined in section 1072 of title 10, United States 
        Code).
    (c) Program Activities.--Each organization or institution that 
participates in a partnership under the pilot program authorized by 
subsection (a) shall--
            (1) carry out intensive outpatient programs of short 
        duration to treat members of the Armed Forces suffering from 
        post-traumatic stress disorder resulting from military sexual 
        trauma, including treatment for substance abuse, depression, 
        and other issues related to such conditions;
            (2) use evidence-based and evidence-informed treatment 
        strategies in carrying out such programs;
            (3) share clinical and outreach best practices with other 
        organizations and institutions participating in the pilot 
        program; and
            (4) annually assess outcomes for members of the Armed 
        Forces individually and among the organizations and 
        institutions participating in the pilot program with respect to 
        the treatment of conditions described in paragraph (1).
    (d) Evaluation Metrics.--Before commencement of the pilot program, 
the Secretary shall establish metrics to be used to evaluate the 
effectiveness of the pilot program and the activities under the pilot 
program.
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the pilot program authorized by 
        subsection (a). The report shall include a description of the 
        pilot program and such other matters on the pilot program as 
        the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        cessation of the pilot program under subsection (f), the 
        Secretary shall submit to the committees of Congress referred 
        to in paragraph (1) a report on the pilot program. The report 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the pilot program, including 
                the partnership under the pilot program as described in 
                subsection (b).
                    (B) An assessment of the effectiveness of the pilot 
                program and the activities under the pilot program.
                    (C) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate in light of the pilot program, including 
                recommendations for extension or making permanent the 
                authority for the pilot program.
    (f) Termination.--The Secretary may not carry out the pilot program 
authorized by subsection (a) after the date that is three years after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

SEC. 711. IMPROVEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION OF DEFENSE HEALTH AGENCY AND 
              MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1073c of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
    ``(2) In addition to the responsibilities set forth in paragraph 
(1), the Director of the Defense Health Agency shall have the 
authority--
            ``(A) to direct, control, and serve as the primary rater of 
        the performance of commanders or directors of military medical 
        treatment facilities;
            ``(B) to direct and control any intermediary organizations 
        between the Defense Health Agency and military medical 
        treatment facilities;
            ``(C) to determine the scope of medical care provided at 
        each military medical treatment facility to meet the military 
        personnel readiness requirements of the senior military 
        operational commander of the military installation;
            ``(D) to determine total workforce requirements at each 
        military medical treatment facility;
            ``(E) to direct joint manning at military medical treatment 
        facilities and intermediary organizations;
            ``(F) to establish training and skills sustainment venues 
        for military medical personnel;
            ``(G) to address personnel staffing shortages at military 
        medical treatment facilities; and
            ``(H) to approve service nominations for commanders or 
        directors of military medical treatment facilities.''.
    (b) Combat Support Responsibilities.--Subsection (d)(2) of such 
section is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(C) Ensuring that the Defense Health Agency meets the 
        military personnel readiness requirements of the senior 
        military operational commanders of the military 
        installations.''.

SEC. 712. ORGANIZATIONAL FRAMEWORK OF THE MILITARY HEALTHCARE SYSTEM TO 
              SUPPORT MEDICAL REQUIREMENTS OF THE COMBATANT COMMANDS.

    (a) Organizational Framework Required.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall, acting through the Director of the Defense Health Agency, 
implement an organizational framework for the military healthcare 
system that most effectively implements chapter 55 of title 10, United 
States Code, in a manner that maximizes interoperability and fully 
integrates medical capabilities of the Armed Forces in order to enhance 
joint military medical operations in support of requirements of the 
combatant commands.
    (b) Implementation.--
            (1) Commencement.--Implementation of the organizational 
        framework required by subsection (a) shall commence not later 
        than October 1, 2018.
            (2) Phased implementation.--Implementation of the 
        organizational framework may occur in phases, as considered 
        appropriate by the Director.
            (3) Completion.--The organizational framework shall be 
        fully implemented by not later than October 1, 2020.
            (4) Compliance with certain requirements.--The 
        organizational framework, as implemented, shall comply with all 
        requirements of section 1073c of title 10, United States Code, 
        except for the October 1, 2018, implementation date specified 
        in such section.
    (c) Health-readiness Regions in CONUS Required.--The organizational 
framework required by subsection (a) shall meet the requirements as 
follows:
            (1) Health-readiness regions.--There shall be not more than 
        three health-readiness regions established in the continental 
        United States.
            (2) Leader.--Each region under paragraph (1) shall be led 
        by a commander or director who is a member of the Armed Forces 
        serving in a grade not higher than major general or rear 
        admiral and who shall be--
                    (A) selected by the Director from among members of 
                the Armed Forces recommended by the military 
                departments for service in such position; and
                    (B) under the authority, direction, and control of 
                the Director while serving in such position.
            (3) Regional hubs.--
                    (A) In general.--Each region under paragraph (1) 
                shall include a major military medical center 
                designated by the Director to serve as the regional hub 
                for the provision of specialized medical services in 
                such region.
                    (B) Capabilities.--A major medical center may not 
                be designated as a regional hub unless the center--
                            (i) includes one or more large graduate 
                        medical education training platforms; and
                            (ii) provides, at a minimum, role 4 medical 
                        care.
                    (C) Location.--Any major medical center designated 
                as a regional hub of a region shall be geographically 
                located so as to maximize the support provided by 
                uniformed medical resources in the region to the 
                combatant commands. In designating major medical 
                centers as a regional hub, the Director shall give 
                consideration to the collocation of such centers with 
                major aerial debarkation points of patients in the 
                medical evacuation system of the United States 
                Transportation Command.
                    (D) Major health care delivery platform.--A major 
                medical center designated as a regional hub of a region 
                shall serve as the major health care delivery platform 
                for the provision of complex specialized medical care 
                in the region, whether through patient referrals from 
                other military medical treatment facilities in the 
                region or through referrals from other regions in the 
                case of certain specialized medical services (such as 
                treatment for severe burns) which may only be available 
                at a military medical treatment facility within the 
                region.
            (4) Additional military medical centers.--Consistent with 
        section 1073d of title 10, United States Code, each region 
        under paragraph (1) may include one or more additional military 
        medical centers, whether established or maintained by the 
        Director for purposes of this section, in order to serve 
        locations in the region, if any, as follows:
                    (A) Locations with large beneficiary populations.
                    (B) Locations that serve as the primary readiness 
                platforms of the Armed Forces.
            (5) Patient referrals and coordination.--The Director shall 
        ensure effective and efficient medical care referrals and 
        coordination among military medical treatment facilities in 
        each region under paragraph (1), and among local or regional 
        high-performing health systems in the region, through local or 
        regional partnerships with institutional or individual civilian 
        providers.
    (d) Health-readiness Regions OCONUS Required.--The organizational 
framework required by subsection (a) shall meet the requirements as 
follows:
            (1) Health-readiness regions.--There shall be established 
        not more than two health-readiness regions outside the 
        continental United States--
                    (A) to enhance joint military medical operations in 
                support of the requirements of the combatant commands 
                in such region or regions, with a specific focus on 
                existing and future contingency and operational plans;
                    (B) to ensure the provision of high-quality 
                healthcare services to beneficiaries; and
                    (C) to improve the interoperability of healthcare 
                delivery systems in regions (whether under this 
                subsection, subsection (c), or both).
            (2) Patient referrals and coordination.--The Director shall 
        ensure effective and efficient medical care referrals and 
        coordination among military medical treatment facilities in any 
        region under paragraph (1), and among local or regional high-
        performing health systems in such region.
    (e) Planning and Coordination.--
            (1) Sustainment of clinical competencies and staffing.--The 
        Director shall--
                    (A) provide in each health-readiness region under 
                this section healthcare delivery venues for uniformed 
                medical and dental personnel to obtain operational 
                clinical competencies; and
                    (B) coordinate with the military departments to 
                ensure that staffing at military medical treatment 
                facilities in each region supports readiness 
                requirements for members of the Armed Forces and 
                military medical personnel.
            (2) Oversight and allocation of resources.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director shall, consistent 
                with section 193 of title 10, United States Code, 
                coordinate with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
                Staff, through the Joint Staff Surgeon, to conduct 
                oversight and direct resources to support requirements 
                related to readiness or operational medicine support 
                that are validated by the Joint Staff.
                    (B) Supply and demand for medical services.--Based 
                on operational medical force readiness requirements of 
                the combatant commands validated by the Joint Staff, 
                the Director shall--
                            (i) validate supply and demand requirements 
                        for medical and dental services at each 
                        military medical treatment facility;
                            (ii) in coordination with the operational 
                        medical force readiness organizations required 
                        by subsection (f)(1), provide currency workload 
                        for uniformed medical and dental personnel at 
                        each facility to maintain skills proficiency; 
                        and
                            (iii) if workload is insufficient to meet 
                        requirements, identify alternative training and 
                        clinical practice sites for uniformed medical 
                        and dental personnel, and establish military-
                        civilian training partnerships, to provide such 
                        workload.
    (f) Operational Medical Force Readiness Organizations of the Armed 
Forces.--
            (1) Establishment.--Not later than October 1, 2019, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall, acting through the Secretary of the 
        military department concerned, establish in each military 
        department an operational medical force readiness organization 
        in accordance with this subsection.
            (2) Leader.--
                    (A) In general.--Each operational medical force 
                readiness organization established under paragraph (1) 
                shall be led by the Surgeon General of an Armed Force.
                    (B) Construction of duties.--The duties of a 
                Surgeon General under this paragraph as leader of an 
                operational medical force readiness organization are in 
                addition to the duties of such Surgeon General under 
                section 3036, 5137, or 8036 of title 10, United States 
                Code, as applicable.
            (3) Responsibilities.--The responsibilities of an 
        operational medical force readiness organization are limited to 
        the responsibilities as follows:
                    (A) To recruit, organize, train, and equip 
                uniformed medical and dental personnel of the military 
                department concerned.
                    (B) To assign uniformed medical and dental 
                personnel of the military department concerned to 
                military medical treatment facilities for training 
                activities specific to such military department and for 
                operational and training missions, during which 
                assignment such personnel shall be under the 
                operational control of the commander or director of the 
                military medical treatment facility concerned, subject 
                to the authority, direction, and control of the 
                Director.
                    (C) To ensure the readiness for operational 
                deployment of medical and dental personnel and 
                deployable medical or dental teams or units of the 
                Armed Force or Armed Forces concerned.
                    (D) To provide logistical support for operational 
                deployment of medical and dental personnel and 
                deployable medical or dental teams or units of the 
                Armed Force or Armed Forces concerned.
                    (E) To oversee the mobilization and demobilization 
                in connection with operational deployment of medical 
                and dental personnel of the Armed Force or Armed Forces 
                concerned.
                    (F) To carry out operational medical and dental 
                force development for the military department 
                concerned.
                    (G) In coordination with the Secretary concerned, 
                to ensure that the operational medical force readiness 
                organizations of the Armed Forces support the medical 
                and dental readiness responsibilities of the Director 
                and the Secretary concerned.
            (4) Medical force requirements of combatant commands.--
                    (A) In general.--Each operational medical force 
                readiness organization shall ensure that the uniformed 
                medical and dental personnel serving in the military 
                department concerned receive training and clinical 
                practice opportunities necessary to ensure that such 
                personnel are capable of meeting the operational 
                medical force requirements of the combatant commands 
                applicable to such personnel. Such training and 
                practice opportunities shall be provided through 
                programs and activities of the Defense Health Agency 
                and by such other mechanisms as the Secretary shall 
                designate for purposes of this paragraph.
                    (B) Requirements.--The commanders of the combatant 
                commands shall apprise operational medical force 
                readiness organizations of the operational medical 
                force requirements of the combatant commands through 
                the Joint Staff.
            (5) No command authority.--An operational medical force 
        readiness organization established under paragraph (1) shall 
        have no command authority.
    (g) Disestablishment of Superseded Medical Organizations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than the date on which the 
        Secretary of Defense establishes an operational medical force 
        readiness organization within a military department pursuant to 
        subsection (f), the Secretary of Defense shall, acting through 
        the Secretary of such military department concerned, 
        disestablish the following:
                    (A) In the case of the Army, the Army Medical 
                Command, and any associated subordinate command or 
                organization.
                    (B) In the case of the Navy, the Bureau of Medicine 
                and Surgery of the Navy, and any associated subordinate 
                command or organization.
                    (C) In the case of the Air Force, the Air Force 
                Medical Service, and any associated subordinate command 
                or organization.
            (2) Transfer of personnel authorizations.--Any personnel 
        authorization of a command or organization disestablished 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) as of the date of disestablishment 
        may be transferred by the Secretary to the Defense Health 
        Agency or any other organization of the Department of Defense 
        considered appropriate by the Secretary, including an 
        operational medical force readiness organization under 
        subsection (f).

SEC. 713. STREAMLINING OF TRICARE PRIME BENEFICIARY REFERRAL PROCESS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall streamline the 
process under section 1095f of title 10, United States Code, by which 
beneficiaries enrolled in TRICARE Prime are referred to the civilian 
provider network for inpatient or outpatient care under the TRICARE 
program.
    (b) Objectives.--In carrying out the requirement in subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall meet the following objectives:
            (1) The referral process shall model best industry 
        practices for referrals from primary care managers to specialty 
        care providers.
            (2) The process shall strictly limit administrative 
        requirements for enrolled beneficiaries, relying instead on 
        communications among providers and care coordinators to arrange 
        appointments within applicable access to care scheduling time 
        standards.
            (3) Beneficiary preferences for communications relating to 
        appointment referrals using state-of-the-art information 
        technology shall be used to expedite the process.
            (4) There shall be effective and efficient processes to 
        determine the availability of appointments at military medical 
        treatment facilities and, when unavailable, to make prompt 
        referrals to network providers under the TRICARE program.
            (5) There shall be no right-of-first refusal requirement 
        under the process.
    (c) Deadline for Implementation.--The requirement in subsection (a) 
shall be implemented for referrals under TRICARE Prime in calendar year 
2019.
    (d) Evaluation and Improvement.--After 2019, the Secretary shall--
            (1) evaluate the process described in subsection (a) not 
        less often annually; and
            (2) make appropriate improvements to the process in light 
        of such evaluation.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``TRICARE program'' 
and ``TRICARE Prime'' have the meaning given such terms in section 1072 
of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 714. SHARING OF INFORMATION WITH STATE PRESCRIPTION DRUG 
              MONITORING PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1074g of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections 
        (h) and (i), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
        subsection (g):
    ``(g) Sharing of Information With State Prescription Drug 
Monitoring Programs.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall establish and 
maintain a program (to be known as the `Military Health System 
Prescription Drug Monitoring Program') in accordance with this 
subsection. The program shall include a special emphasis on drugs 
provided through facilities of the uniformed services.
    ``(2) The program shall be--
            ``(A) comparable to prescription drug monitoring programs 
        operated by States, including such programs approved by the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services under section 399O of 
        the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280g-3); and
            ``(B) applicable to designated controlled substance 
        prescriptions under the pharmacy benefits program.
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary shall establish appropriate procedures for 
the bi-directional sharing of patient-specific information regarding 
prescriptions for designated controlled substances between the program 
and State prescription drug monitoring programs.
    ``(B) The purpose of sharing of information under this paragraph 
shall be to prevent misuse and diversion of opioid medications and 
other designated controlled substances.
    ``(C) Any disclosure of patient-specific information by the 
Secretary under this paragraph is an authorized disclosure for purposes 
of the health information privacy regulations promulgated under the 
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 
104-191).
    ``(4)(A) Any procedures developed pursuant to paragraph (3)(A) 
shall include appropriate safeguards, as determined by the Secretary, 
concerning cyber security of Department of Defense systems and 
operational security of Department personnel.
    ``(B) To the extent the Secretary considers appropriate, the 
program may be treated as comparable to a State program for purposes of 
bi-directional sharing of controlled substance prescription 
information.
    ``(5) For purposes of this subsection, any reference to a program 
operated by a State includes any program operated by a county, 
municipality, or other subdivision within that State.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1079(q) of such title is amended 
by striking ``section 1074g(g)'' and inserting ``section 1074g(h)''.

SEC. 715. IMPROVEMENT OF REIMBURSEMENT BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF 
              ENTITIES CARRYING OUT STATE VACCINATION PROGRAMS IN 
              CONNECTION WITH VACCINES PROVIDED TO COVERED 
              BENEFICIARIES UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.

    Section 719(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 1074g note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``for the cost of 
        vaccines provided to covered beneficiaries through such 
        program''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``to purchase 
                vaccines provided'' and inserting ``in making vaccines 
                available'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``to provide 
                vaccines'' and all that follows through the period at 
                the end and inserting ``with respect to a State 
                vaccination program may not exceed the amount the 
                Department would reimburse an entity for making 
                vaccines available to the number of covered 
                beneficiaries who reside in the State concerned.''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Inapplicability of limitation.--Subparagraph 
                (B) shall not apply to amounts assessed by entities 
                that provide independent verification that the 
                assessments of such entities are below the costs of the 
                private sector in making vaccines available.''.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

SEC. 721. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY 
              DEMONSTRATION FUND.

    Section 1704(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2573), as amended by 
section 722 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291), 
section 723 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (Public Law 114-92), section 741(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328), and 
section 719 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018 (Public Law 115-91), is further amended by striking ``September 
30, 2019'' and inserting ``September 30, 2020''.

SEC. 722. INCREASE IN NUMBER OF APPOINTED MEMBERS OF THE HENRY M. 
              JACKSON FOUNDATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF MILITARY 
              MEDICINE.

    Section 178(c)(1)(C) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``four members'' and inserting ``six members''.

SEC. 723. CESSATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR MENTAL HEALTH ASSESSMENT OF 
              MEMBERS AFTER REDEPLOYMENT FROM A CONTINGENCY OPERATION 
              UPON DISCHARGE OR RELEASE FROM THE ARMED FORCES.

    Section 1074m of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)(C), by striking ``Once'' and 
        inserting ``Subject to subsection (d), once''; and
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``subsection (a)(1)(D)'' 
        and inserting ``subparagraph (C) or (D) of subsection (a)(1)''.

SEC. 724. PILOT PROGRAM ON EARNING BY SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES MEDICS 
              OF CREDITS TOWARDS A PHYSICIAN ASSISTANT DEGREE.

    (a) In General.--The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health 
Affairs shall conduct a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
advisability of partnerships between special operations forces and 
institutions of higher education, and health care systems if determined 
appropriate by the Assistant Secretary for purposes of the pilot 
program, through which special operations forces medics earn credit 
toward the master's degree of physician assistant for military 
operational work and training performed by the medics.
    (b) Duration.--The Assistant Secretary shall conduct the pilot 
program for a period not to exceed five years.
    (c) Clinical Training.--Partnerships under subsection (a) shall 
permit medics participating in the pilot program to conduct clinical 
training at medical facilities of the Department of Defense and the 
civilian sector.
    (d) Evaluation.--The evaluation of work and training performed by 
medics for which credits are earned under the pilot program shall 
comply with civilian clinical evaluation standards applicable to the 
awarding of master's degrees of physician assistant.
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representative a report that shall include the 
        following:
                    (A) A comprehensive framework for the military 
                education to be provided to special operations forces 
                medics under the pilot program, including courses of 
                instruction at institutions of higher education and any 
                health care systems participating in the pilot program.
                    (B) Metrics to be used to assess the effectiveness 
                of the pilot program.
                    (C) A description of the mechanisms to be used by 
                the Department, medics, or both to cover the costs of 
                education received by medics under the pilot program 
                through institutions of higher education or health care 
                systems, including payment by the Department in return 
                for a military service commitment, tuition or other 
                educational assistance by the Department, use by medics 
                of post-9/11 educational assistance available through 
                the Department of Veterans Affairs, and any other 
                mechanisms the Secretary considers appropriate for 
                purposes of the pilot program.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after completion 
        of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a final report on the pilot program. The report 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) An evaluation of the pilot program using the 
                metrics of assessment set forth pursuant to paragraph 
                (1)(B).
                    (B) An assessment of the utility of the funding 
                mechanisms set forth pursuant to paragraph (1)(C).
                    (C) An assessment of the effects of the pilot 
                program on recruitment and retention of medics for 
                special operations forces.
                    (D) An assessment of the feasibility and 
                advisability of extending one or more authorities for 
                joint professional military education under chapter 107 
                of title 10, United States Code, to warrant officers or 
                enlisted personnel, and if the Secretary considers the 
                extension of any such authorities feasible and 
                advisable, recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action to so extend such authorities.
    (f) Construction of Authorities.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to--
            (1) authorize an officer or employee of the Federal 
        Government to create, endorse, or otherwise incentivize a 
        particular curriculum or degree track; or
            (2) require, direct, review, or control a State or 
        educational institution, or the instructional content, 
        curriculum, and related activities of a State or educational 
        institution.

SEC. 725. PILOT PROGRAM ON PARTNERSHIPS WITH CIVILIAN ORGANIZATIONS FOR 
              SPECIALIZED MEDICAL TRAINING.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot 
program to assess the feasibility and advisability of establishing 
partnerships with public, private, and non-profit organizations and 
institutions to provide short-term specialized medical training to 
advance the medical skills and capabilities of military medical 
providers.
    (b) Duration.--The Secretary may carry out the pilot program under 
subsection (a) for a period of not more than three years.
    (c) Evaluation Metrics.--Before commencing the pilot program under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall establish metrics to be used to 
evaluate the effectiveness of the pilot program.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days before the 
                commencement of the pilot program under subsection (a), 
                the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
                Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
                a report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include a description of the pilot program, 
                the evaluation metrics established under subsection 
                (c), and such other matters relating to the pilot 
                program as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Final report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                completion of the pilot program under subsection (a), 
                the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
                Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
                a report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) A description of the pilot program, 
                        including the partnerships established under 
                        the pilot program as described in subsection 
                        (a).
                            (ii) An assessment of the effectiveness of 
                        the pilot program.
                            (iii) Such recommendations for legislative 
                        or administrative action as the Secretary 
                        considers appropriate in light of the pilot 
                        program, including recommendations for 
                        extending or making permanent the authority for 
                        the pilot program.
    (e) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--The amount authorized to be appropriated 
        for fiscal year 2019 for the Department of Defense for the 
        Defense Health Program for education and training shall be 
        increased by $2,500,000.
            (2) Availability.--The amount of the increase of the 
        authorization under paragraph (1) shall be available to carry 
        out this section and shall remain available for obligation 
        until the completion of the pilot program under this section.

SEC. 726. REGISTRY OF INDIVIDUALS EXPOSED TO PER- AND POLYFLUOROALKYL 
              SUBSTANCES ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) Establishment of Registry.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall--
                    (A) establish and maintain a registry for eligible 
                individuals who may have been exposed to per- and 
                polyfluoroalkyl substances (in this section referred to 
                as ``PFAS'') due to the environmental release of 
                aqueous film-forming foam (in this section referred to 
                as ``AFFF'') on military installations to meet the 
                requirements of military specification MIL-F-24385F;
                    (B) include any information in such registry that 
                the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines necessary 
                to ascertain and monitor the health effects of the 
                exposure of members of the Armed Forces to PFAS 
                associated with AFFF;
                    (C) develop a public information campaign to inform 
                eligible individuals about the registry, including how 
                to register and the benefits of registering; and
                    (D) periodically notify eligible individuals of 
                significant developments in the study and treatment of 
                conditions associated with exposure to PFAS.
            (2) Coordination.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
        coordinate with the Secretary of Defense in carrying out 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than two years after the 
        date on which the registry under subsection (a) is established, 
        the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to Congress an 
        initial report containing the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the effectiveness of actions 
                taken by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the 
                Secretary of Defense to collect and maintain 
                information on the health effects of exposure to PFAS.
                    (B) Recommendations to improve the collection and 
                maintenance of such information.
                    (C) Using established and previously published 
                epidemiological studies, recommendations regarding the 
                most effective and prudent means of addressing the 
                medical needs of eligible individuals with respect to 
                exposure to PFAS.
            (2) Follow-up report.--Not later than five years after 
        submitting the initial report under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to Congress a 
        follow-up report containing the following:
                    (A) An update to the initial report submitted under 
                paragraph (1).
                    (B) An assessment of whether and to what degree the 
                content of the registry established under subsection 
                (a) is current and scientifically up-to-date.
            (3) Independent scientific organization.--The Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs shall enter into an agreement with an 
        independent scientific organization to prepare the reports 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2).
    (c) Recommendations for Additional Exposures to Be Included.--Not 
later than five years after the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
every five years thereafter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, shall submit to Congress 
recommendations for additional chemicals with respect to which 
individuals exposed to such chemicals should be included in the 
registry established under subsection (a).
    (d) Eligible Individual Defined.--In this section, the term 
``eligible individual'' means any individual who, on or after a date 
specified by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs through regulations, 
served or is serving in the Armed Forces at a military installation 
where AFFF was used or at another location of the Department of Defense 
where AFFF was used.

SEC. 727. INCLUSION OF GAMBLING DISORDER IN HEALTH ASSESSMENTS FOR 
              MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND RELATED RESEARCH EFFORTS.

    (a) Annual Periodic Health Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall incorporate medical screening questions specific to gambling 
disorder into the Annual Periodic Health Assessment conducted by the 
Department of Defense for members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Research Efforts.--The Secretary shall incorporate into ongoing 
research efforts of the Department questions on gambling disorder, as 
appropriate, including by restoring such questions into the Health 
Related Behaviors Survey of Active Duty Military Personnel and the 
Health Related Behaviors Survey of Reserve Component Personnel.
    (c) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on efforts undertaken pursuant to 
subsections (a) and (b) and the findings of the assessments and surveys 
described in those subsections with respect to the prevalence of 
gambling disorder among members of the Armed Forces.

SEC. 728. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW OF DEFENSE HEALTH AGENCY OVERSIGHT 
              OF TRICARE MANAGED CARE SUPPORT CONTRACTORS.

    (a) Review.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a review of the 
oversight conducted by the Defense Health Agency with respect to the 
transition of managed care support contractors for the TRICARE program.
    (b) Matters Included.--The review conducted under subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) The extent to which the Defense Health Agency provided 
        guidance and oversight to the outgoing and incoming managed 
        care support contractors during the transition period prior to 
        the start of health care delivery.
            (2) The extent to which there were any issues with health 
        care delivery, and if so--
                    (A) the effect, if any, of the guidance and 
                oversight by the Defense Health Agency during the 
                transition period on those issues; and
                    (B) the solutions of the Defense Health Agency for 
                remediating any deficiencies of managed care support 
                contractors.
            (3) The extent to which the Defense Health Agency has 
        reviewed any lessons learned from prior transitions and 
        incorporated those lessons into the current transition.
    (c) Ongoing Requirement.--The Comptroller General shall review any 
transition of managed care support contractors for the TRICARE program 
occurring after the date of the review under subsection (a) and submit 
to the congressional defense committees a similar review for each such 
transition.
    (d) TRICARE Program Defined.--In this section, the term ``TRICARE 
program'' has the meaning given that term in section 1072 of title 10, 
United States Code.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

SEC. 801. PERMANENT SUPPLY CHAIN RISK MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY.

    (a) Permanent Extension of Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 2339a. Requirements for information relating to supply chain 
              risk
    ``(a) Authority.--Subject to subsection (b), the head of a covered 
agency may--
            ``(1) carry out a covered procurement action; and
            ``(2) limit, notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
        whole or in part, the disclosure of information relating to the 
        basis for carrying out a covered procurement action.
    ``(b) Determination and Notification.--The head of a covered agency 
may exercise the authority provided in subsection (a) only after--
            ``(1) obtaining a joint recommendation by the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and the 
        Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, on the 
        basis of a risk assessment by the Under Secretary of Defense 
        for Intelligence, that there is a significant supply chain risk 
        to a covered system;
            ``(2) making a determination in writing, in unclassified or 
        classified form, with the concurrence of the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, that--
                    ``(A) use of the authority in subsection (a)(1) is 
                necessary to protect national security by reducing 
                supply chain risk;
                    ``(B) less intrusive measures are not reasonably 
                available to reduce such supply chain risk; and
                    ``(C) in a case where the head of the covered 
                agency plans to limit disclosure of information under 
                subsection (a)(2), the risk to national security due to 
                the disclosure of such information outweighs the risk 
                due to not disclosing such information; and
            ``(3) providing a classified or unclassified notice of the 
        determination made under paragraph (2) to the appropriate 
        congressional committees, which notice shall include--
                    ``(A) the information required by section 
                2304(f)(3) of this title;
                    ``(B) the joint recommendation by the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
                and the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
                Defense as specified in paragraph (1);
                    ``(C) a summary of the risk assessment by the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Intelligence that serves as 
                the basis for the joint recommendation specified in 
                paragraph (1); and
                    ``(D) a summary of the basis for the determination, 
                including a discussion of less intrusive measures that 
                were considered and why they were not reasonably 
                available to reduce supply chain risk.
    ``(c) Delegation.--The head of a covered agency may not delegate 
the authority provided in subsection (a) or the responsibility to make 
a determination under subsection (b) to an official below the level of 
the service acquisition executive for the agency concerned.
    ``(d) Limitation on Disclosure.--If the head of a covered agency 
has exercised the authority provided in subsection (a)(2) to limit 
disclosure of information--
            ``(1) no action undertaken by the agency head under such 
        authority shall be subject to review in a bid protest before 
        the Government Accountability Office or in any Federal court; 
        and
            ``(2) the agency head shall--
                    ``(A) notify appropriate parties of a covered 
                procurement action and the basis for such action only 
                to the extent necessary to effectuate the covered 
                procurement action;
                    ``(B) notify other Department of Defense components 
                or other Federal agencies responsible for procurements 
                that may be subject to the same or similar supply chain 
                risk, in a manner and to the extent consistent with the 
                requirements of national security; and
                    ``(C) ensure the confidentiality of any such 
                notifications.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Head of a covered agency.--The term `head of a 
        covered agency' means each of the following:
                    ``(A) The Secretary of Defense.
                    ``(B) The Secretary of the Army.
                    ``(C) The Secretary of the Navy.
                    ``(D) The Secretary of the Air Force.
            ``(2) Covered procurement action.--The term `covered 
        procurement action' means any of the following actions, if the 
        action takes place in the course of conducting a covered 
        procurement:
                    ``(A) The exclusion of a source that fails to meet 
                qualification standards established in accordance with 
                the requirements of section 2319 of this title for the 
                purpose of reducing supply chain risk in the 
                acquisition of covered systems.
                    ``(B) The exclusion of a source that fails to 
                achieve an acceptable rating with regard to an 
                evaluation factor providing for the consideration of 
                supply chain risk in the evaluation of proposals for 
                the award of a contract or the issuance of a task or 
                delivery order.
                    ``(C) The decision to withhold consent for a 
                contractor to subcontract with a particular source or 
                to direct a contractor for a covered system to exclude 
                a particular source from consideration for a 
                subcontract under the contract.
            ``(3) Covered procurement.--The term `covered procurement' 
        means--
                    ``(A) a source selection for a covered system or a 
                covered item of supply involving either a performance 
                specification, as provided in section 2305(a)(1)(C)(ii) 
                of this title, or an evaluation factor, as provided in 
                section 2305(a)(2)(A) of this title, relating to supply 
                chain risk;
                    ``(B) the consideration of proposals for and 
                issuance of a task or delivery order for a covered 
                system or a covered item of supply, as provided in 
                section 2304c(d)(3) of this title, where the task or 
                delivery order contract concerned includes a contract 
                clause establishing a requirement relating to supply 
                chain risk; or
                    ``(C) any contract action involving a contract for 
                a covered system or a covered item of supply where such 
                contract includes a clause establishing requirements 
                relating to supply chain risk.
            ``(4) Supply chain risk.--The term `supply chain risk' 
        means the risk that an adversary may sabotage, maliciously 
        introduce unwanted function, or otherwise subvert the design, 
        integrity, manufacturing, production, distribution, 
        installation, operation, or maintenance of a covered system so 
        as to surveil, deny, disrupt, or otherwise degrade the 
        function, use, or operation of such system.
            ``(5) Covered system.--The term `covered system' means a 
        national security system, as that term is defined in section 
        3542(b) of title 44.
            ``(6) Covered item of supply.--The term `covered item of 
        supply' means an item of information technology (as that term 
        is defined in section 11101 of title 40) that is purchased for 
        inclusion in a covered system, and the loss of integrity of 
        which could result in a supply chain risk for a covered system.
            ``(7) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        `appropriate congressional committees' means--
                    ``(A) in the case of a covered system included in 
                the National Intelligence Program or the Military 
                Intelligence Program, the Select Committee on 
                Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select 
                Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
                Representatives, and the congressional defense 
                committees; and
                    ``(B) in the case of a covered system not otherwise 
                included in subparagraph (A), the congressional defense 
                committees.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 2339 the following new item:

``2339a. Requirements for information relating to supply chain risk.''.
    (b) Repeal of Obsolete Authority.--Section 806(g) of the Ike 
Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public 
Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2304 note) is hereby repealed.

SEC. 802. COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE MARKET RESEARCH.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (e) of section 2431a of title 10, 
United States code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(10) The term `market research' includes--
                    ``(A) government market research directly with 
                prospective vendors, including--
                            ``(i) contacting knowledgeable individuals 
                        in government and industry regarding market 
                        capabilities to meet requirements;
                            ``(ii) reviewing the results of recent 
                        market research undertaken to meet similar or 
                        identical requirements;
                            ``(iii) publishing formal requests for 
                        information in appropriate technical or 
                        scientific journals or business publications;
                            ``(iv) querying the governmentwide database 
                        of contracts and other procurement instruments 
                        intended for use by multiple agencies;
                            ``(v) participating in interactive, on-line 
                        communication among industry, acquisition 
                        personnel, and customers;
                            ``(vi) obtaining source lists of similar 
                        items from other contracting activities or 
                        agencies, trade associations, or other sources;
                            ``(vii) reviewing catalogs and other 
                        generally available product literature 
                        published by manufacturers, distributors, and 
                        dealers or available online;
                            ``(viii) conducting interchange meetings or 
                        holding presolicitation conferences to involve 
                        potential offerors early in the acquisition 
                        process; and
                            ``(ix) ensuring that any conflicts of 
                        interest presented by vendors providing 
                        government capability statements are both 
                        disclosed and mitigated; and
                    ``(B) commercially available third-party market 
                research.''.
    (b) Review.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense 
for Research and Engineering, shall review the guidance of the 
Department of Defense with regard to those portions of the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation regarding commercially available market 
research, including sections 10.001(a)(2)(vi) and 10.002(b). The review 
shall, at a minimum--
            (1) assess the impact that conducting market research has 
        on the Department's resources; and
            (2) ensure that commercially available market research is 
        considered among other sources of research, as appropriate, and 
        reviewed prior to developing new requirements documents for an 
        acquisition by the Department.

SEC. 803. COMPTROLLER GENERAL ASSESSMENT OF ACQUISITION PROGRAMS AND 
              RELATED INITIATIVES.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 131 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2229b. Comptroller General assessment on acquisition programs 
              and initiatives
    ``(a)  Assessment Required.--The Comptroller General of the United 
States shall submit to the congressional defense committees an annual 
assessment of selected acquisition programs and initiatives of the 
Department of Defense by March 30th of each year, beginning in 2020.
    ``(b) Analyses To Be Included.--The assessment required under 
subsection (a) shall include--
            ``(1) a macro analysis of how well acquisition programs and 
        initiatives are performing and reasons for that performance;
            ``(2) a summary of organizational and legislative changes 
        and emerging assessment methodologies since the last 
        assessment, and a discussion of the implications for execution 
        and oversight of programs and initiatives; and
            ``(3) specific analyses of individual acquisition programs 
        and initiatives.
    ``(c) Acquisition Programs and Initiatives to Be Considered.--The 
assessment required under subsection (a) shall consider the following 
programs and initiatives:
            ``(1) Selected weapon systems, as determined appropriate by 
        the Comptroller General.
            ``(2) Selected information technology systems and 
        initiatives, including defense business systems, networks, and 
        software-intensive systems, as determined appropriate by the 
        Comptroller General.
            ``(3) Selected prototyping and rapid fielding activities 
        and initiatives, as determined appropriate by the Comptroller 
        General.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
2229a the following new item:

``2229b. Comptroller General assessment on acquisition programs and 
                            related initiatives.''.
    (c) Repeal of Superseded Authority.--Section 883(d) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 
U.S.C. 2222 note) is amended by striking paragraph (1).

Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

SEC. 811. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CONTRACTING DISPUTE MATTERS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out a study 
of the frequency and effects of bid protests involving the same 
contract award or proposed award that have been filed at both the 
Government Accountability Office and the United States Court of Federal 
Claims. The study shall cover Department of Defense contracts and 
include, at a minimum--
            (1) the number of protests that have been filed with both 
        tribunals and results;
            (2) the number of such protests where the tribunals 
        differed in denying or sustaining the action;
            (3) the length of time, in average time and median time--
                    (A) from initial filing at the Government 
                Accountability Office to decision in the United States 
                Court of Federal Claims;
                    (B) from filing with each tribunal to decision by 
                such tribunal;
                    (C) from the time at which the basis of the protest 
                is known to the time of filing in each tribunal; and
                    (D) in the case of an appeal from a decision of the 
                United States Court of Federal Claims, from the date of 
                the initial filing of the appeal to decision in the 
                appeal;
            (4) the number of protests where performance was stayed or 
        enjoined and for how long;
            (5) if performance was stayed or enjoined, whether the 
        requirement was obtained in the interim through another vehicle 
        or in-house, or whether during the period of the stay or 
        enjoining the requirement went unfulfilled;
            (6) separately for each tribunal, the number of protests 
        where performance was stayed or enjoined and monetary damages 
        were awarded, which shall include for how long performance was 
        stayed or enjoined and the amount of monetary damages;
            (7) whether the protestor was a large or small business; 
        and
            (8) whether the protestor was the incumbent in a prior 
        contract for the same or similar product or service.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees, the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, and 
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report 
on the results of the study, along with related recommendations for 
improving the expediency of the bid protest process. In preparing the 
report, the Secretary shall consult with the Attorney General of the 
United States, the Comptroller General of the United States, and the 
United States Court of Federal Claims.
    (c) Ongoing Data Collection.--Not later than 270 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish 
and continuously maintain a data repository to collect on an ongoing 
basis the information described in subsection (a) and any additional 
relevant bid protest data the Secretary determines necessary and 
appropriate to allow the Department of Defense, the Government 
Accountability Office, and the United States Court of Federal Claims to 
assess and review bid protests over time.
    (d) Establishment of Expedited Process for Small Value Contracts.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 1, 2019, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan and schedule for an 
        expedited bid protest process for Department of Defense 
        contracts with a value of less than $100,000.
            (2) Consultation.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary of Defense may consult with the Government 
        Accountability Office and the United States Court of Federal 
        Claims to the extent such entities may establish a similar 
        process at their election.
            (3) Report.--Not later than May 1, 2019, the Secretary of 
        Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
        report on the plan and schedule for implementation of the 
        expedited bid protest process, which shall include a request 
        for any additional authorities the Secretary determines 
        appropriate for such efforts.

SEC. 812. CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL DATA RIGHTS DURING CHALLENGES.

    (a) Exercise of Rights in Technical Data Before Final Disposition 
of a Challenge.--Section 2321(i) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``Prior to 
        and'' after ``Rights and Liability'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting before paragraph (3), as so redesignated, 
        the following new paragraphs:
    ``(1) Upon issuance of a challenge to a use or release restriction 
asserted by a contractor or subcontractor under the contract made 
pursuant to subsection (d) or made under procedures established by the 
Department of Defense for challenges to asserted use or release 
restrictions in connection with noncommercial computer software, and 
until final disposition of such a challenge, the Department of Defense 
may exercise rights in the technical data or noncommercial computer 
software rights consistent with the grounds identified in the challenge 
pursuant to subsection (d)(3), (or the grounds identified under 
corresponding Department of Defense procedures in the case of 
noncommercial computer software) in order to meet Department of Defense 
mission requirements.
    ``(2) In the event that the challenge made by the government is not 
sustained upon final disposition, the contractor or subcontractor shall 
have only a right to damages against the United States if the United 
States was found to have not acted in good faith and as otherwise 
provided by law arising from the exercise of rights described in 
paragraph (1) during the time period described in such paragraph.''.
    (b) Revision of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the Defense Federal 
Acquisition Regulation Supplement, by interim or final rule, to 
implement the amendments made by subsection (a).
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) and the 
revision required by subsection (b) shall become effective on the date 
of publication of the interim or final rule (whichever is earlier) 
required by subsection (b) and shall apply to solicitations issued by 
Department of Defense contracting activities after that date unless the 
senior procurement executive of the agency concerned grants a waiver on 
a case-by-case basis.
    (d) Guidance on Technical Data Right Negotiation.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall develop policies on the negotiation of technical data 
rights for noncommercial software that reflects the Department of 
Defense's needs for technical data rights in the event of a protest or 
replacement of incumbent contractor to meet defense requirements in the 
most cost effective manner.

SEC. 813. INCREASED MICRO-PURCHASE THRESHOLD.

    (a) In General.--Section 2338 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``Notwithstanding subsection (a) of section 1902 of 
title 41, the micro-purchase threshold for the Department of Defense 
for purposes of such section is $5,000'' and inserting ``The micro-
purchase threshold for the Department of Defense is $10,000''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1902(a)(1) of title 41, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``sections 2338 and 2339 of title 
10 and''.
    (c) Repeal of Obsolete Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2339 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is repealed.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 2339.

SEC. 814. MODIFICATION OF LIMITATIONS ON SINGLE SOURCE TASK OR DELIVERY 
              ORDER CONTRACTS.

    Section 2304a(d)(3)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``reasonably perform the work'' and inserting ``efficiently 
perform the work''.

SEC. 815. PRELIMINARY COST ANALYSIS REQUIREMENT FOR EXERCISE OF 
              MULTIYEAR CONTRACT AUTHORITY.

    Section 2306b(i)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``made after the completion of a cost 
        analysis'' and inserting ``supported by a preliminary cost 
        analysis''; and
            (2) by striking ``for the purpose of section 2334(e)(1) of 
        this title, and that the analysis supports those preliminary 
        findings''.

SEC. 816. INCLUSION OF BEST AVAILABLE INFORMATION REGARDING PAST 
              PERFORMANCE OF SUBCONTRACTORS AND JOINT VENTURE PARTNERS.

    (a) Requirements for Performance of Subcontractors and Joint 
Venture Partners.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council and the Administrator for 
Federal Procurement Policy, shall develop policies for the Department 
of Defense to ensure the best information regarding past performance of 
certain subcontractors and joint venture partners is available when 
awarding Department of Defense contracts. The policies shall include 
proposed revisions to the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement as follows:
            (1) Required performance evaluations, as part of a 
        government-wide evaluation reporting tool, for first-tier 
        subcontractors performing a portion of the contract valued at 
        not less than 20 percent of the value of the prime contract, 
        provided--
                    (A) the information included in rating the 
                subcontractor is not inconsistent with the information 
                included in the rating for the prime contractor;
                    (B) the subcontractor evaluation is conducted 
                consistent with the provisions of section 42.15 of the 
                Federal Acquisition Regulation;
                    (C) negative evaluations of a subcontractor in no 
                way obviate the prime contractor's responsibility for 
                successful completion of the contract and management of 
                its subcontractors; and
                    (D) that in the judgment of the contracting 
                officer, the overall execution of the work is impacted 
                by the performance of the subcontractor or 
                subcontractors.
            (2) Required performance evaluations, as part of a 
        government-wide evaluation reporting tool, of individual 
        partners of joint venture-awarded, to ensure that past 
        performance on joint venture projects is considered in future 
        awards to individual joint venture partners, provided--
                    (A) at a minimum, the rating for joint ventures 
                includes an identification that allows the evaluation 
                to be retrieved for each partner of the joint venture;
                    (B) each partner, through the joint venture, is 
                given the same opportunity to submit comments, 
                rebutting statements, or additional information, 
                consistent with the provisions of section 42.15 of the 
                Federal Acquisition Regulation; and
                    (C) the rating clearly identifies the 
                responsibilities of joint venture partners for discrete 
                elements of the work where the partners are not jointly 
                and severally responsible for the project.
            (3) Processes to request exceptions from the annual 
        evaluation requirement under section 42.1502(a) of the Federal 
        Acquisition Regulation where submission of the annual 
        evaluations would not provide the best representation of the 
        performance of a contractor, including subcontractors and joint 
        venture partners, including--
                    (A) where no severable element of the work has been 
                completed;
                    (B) where the contracting officer determines that--
                            (i) an insubstantial portion of the 
                        contract work has been completed in the 
                        preceding year; and
                            (ii) the lack of performance is at non-
                        fault to the contractor; or
                    (C) where the contracting officer determines that 
                there is an issue in dispute which, until resolved, 
                would likely cause the annual rating to inaccurately 
                reflect the past performance of the contractor.
    (b) Report on Contractor Performance Appeals.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the defense committees a report on contractor 
and subcontractor past performance evaluations and appeals, including--
            (1) data on the number of performance evaluation appeals 
        filed by contractors and subcontractors within the previous 
        five years;
            (2) the frequency that an appeal was successful and the 
        performance evaluation was changed favorably for the 
        contractor;
            (3) the time it takes for an appeal to make its way through 
        the process from filing to adjudication; and
            (4) what impact the appeals process has on the tracking of 
        information in the performance database system and 
        consideration of contractor and subcontractor performance on 
        future contracts.
    (c) Agency Progress on Performance Evaluations.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall develop a scorecard that compares the timeliness, 
completeness, and accuracy of contractor performance evaluations among 
the Department's components. This scorecard shall be reported annually 
to Congress and made publicly available not later than December 31 for 
the prior fiscal year until 2024.
    (d) Congressional Access to Performance Data.--
            (1) In general.--At the written request of a Chairman or 
        Ranking Member of one of the appropriate congressional 
        committees, the Secretary of Defense shall make all contractor 
        performance evaluations available through electronic access to 
        data systems or in another manner specified by the request for 
        designated staff members of the appropriate congressional 
        committees.
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the congressional defense committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (C) the Committee on Oversight and Government 
                Reform of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 817. MODIFICATION OF CRITERIA FOR WAIVERS OF REQUIREMENT FOR 
              CERTIFIED COST AND PRICE DATA.

    Section 817(b)(2) of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 10 U.S.C. 2306a note) is 
amended by striking ``; and'' and inserting ``; or''.

SEC. 818. SUBCONTRACTING PRICE AND APPROVED PURCHASING SYSTEMS.

    (a) Amendment.--Section 893 of the Ike Skelton National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 
2302 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (g), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(5) The term `approved purchasing system' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 44.101 of the Federal Acquisition 
        Regulation (or any similar regulation).''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i) Consent to Subcontract.--If the contractor on a Department of 
Defense contract requiring a contracting officer's written consent 
prior to the contractor entering into a subcontract has an approved 
purchasing system, the contracting officer may not withhold such 
consent without the written approval of the program manager.''.
    (b) Conforming Regulations.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the 
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement to conform with the 
amendments to section 893 of the Ike Skelton National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 
2302 note) made by this section.

SEC. 819. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON PROGRESS 
              PAYMENT FINANCING OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CONTRACTS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
results of an analysis, conducted by the Comptroller General, of the 
effects of current financing levels of Department of Defense contracts 
on contractors of the Department and the budgets of the Department.
    (b) Elements.--
            (1) In general.--The report required by subsection (a) 
        shall include an analysis and assessment of the impact of the 
        matters specified in paragraph (2), for both government and 
        business, on--
                    (A) the relationship between financing amounts and 
                contractor profit; and
                    (B) the willingness of contractors to pursue 
                contracts with the Department.
            (2) Covered matters.--The matters specified in this 
        paragraph are each of the following under Department contracts:
                    (A) Past changes to progress payment rates and 
                conditions.
                    (B) Progress payment rates and limitations on 
                progressing for undefinitized contract actions.

SEC. 820. AUTHORIZATION TO LIMIT FOREIGN ACCESS TO TECHNOLOGY THROUGH 
              CONTRACTS.

    The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, or a 
designee of the Under Secretary, may include in the terms of any 
contract that the Under Secretary enters into a provision that--
            (1) limits access by select persons or organizations to 
        technology that is the subject of the contract under terms 
        defined by the Under Secretary, including by limiting such 
        access to specific periods of time; and
            (2) if the person or organization violates the requirement 
        described in paragraph (1), the Under Secretary may require the 
        person or organization to forfeit intellectual property rights 
        associated with the contract.

SEC. 821. BRIEFING REQUIREMENT ON SERVICES CONTRACTS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, and every 180 days thereafter until the requirements of section 
2329(b) of title 10, United States Code, are met, the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall brief the 
congressional defense committees on the progress of Department of 
Defense efforts to meet the requirements of such section, including 
relevant information on the methodology and implementation plans for 
future compliance.

SEC. 822. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON AWARDING OF CONTRACTS TO RESPONSIBLE 
              COMPANIES THAT PRIMARILY EMPLOY AMERICAN WORKERS AND DO 
              NOT ACTIVELY TRANSFER AMERICAN JOBS TO POTENTIAL 
              ADVERSARIES.

    It is the sense of Congress that the Department of Defense should 
award contracts to responsible companies that primarily employ United 
States workers or are partners in the national technology and 
industrial base and do not actively transfer United States jobs to 
potential adversaries.

 Subtitle C--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

SEC. 831. PROGRAM COST, FIELDING, AND PERFORMANCE GOALS IN PLANNING 
              MAJOR ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.

    Section 2448a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Secretary of Defense'' and 
                inserting ``designated milestone decision authority for 
                the major defense acquisition program''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the milestone decision authority 
                for the major defense acquisition program approves a 
                program that'' and inserting ``the program''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (b).

SEC. 832. IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE INDEPENDENT STUDY ON 
              CONSIDERATION OF SUSTAINMENT IN WEAPONS SYSTEMS LIFE 
              CYCLE.

    (a) Implementation Required.--Not later than 18 months after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, 
except as provided under subsection (b), commence implementation of 
each recommendation submitted as part of the independent assessment 
produced under section 844 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2290).
    (b) Exceptions.--
            (1) Delayed implementation.--The Secretary of Defense may 
        commence implementation of a recommendation described under 
        subsection (a) later than the date required under such 
        subsection if the Secretary provides the congressional defense 
        committees with a specific justification for the delay in 
        implementation of such recommendation.
            (2) Nonimplementation.--The Secretary of Defense may opt 
        not to implement a recommendation described under subsection 
        (a) if the Secretary provides to the congressional defense 
        committees--
                    (A) the reasons for the decision not to implement 
                the recommendation; and
                    (B) a summary of the alternative actions the 
                Secretary plans to take to address the purposes 
                underlying the recommendation.
    (c) Implementation Plans.--For each recommendation that the 
Secretary is implementing, or that the Secretary plans to implement, 
the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees--
            (1) a summary of actions that have been taken to implement 
        the recommendation; and
            (2) a schedule, with specific milestones, for completing 
        the implementation of the recommendation.

SEC. 833. PILOT PROGRAM TO ACCELERATE MAJOR WEAPONS SYSTEM PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a pilot 
program to reform and accelerate the contracting and pricing processes 
associated with contracts in excess of $50,000,000 by--
            (1) basing price reasonableness determinations on actual 
        cost and pricing data for purchases of the same or similar 
        products for the Department of Defense; and
            (2) reducing the cost and pricing data to be submitted in 
        accordance with section 2306a of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Sunset.--The authority to carry out the pilot program under 
this section shall expire on January 2, 2021.

        Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

SEC. 841. PERMANENT AUTHORITY FOR DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS RELATING TO 
              ACQUISITION PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.

    (a) Permanent Authority.--Section 1762 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by striking subsections (g) and (h).
    (b) Scope of Authority.--Subsection (a) of such section is amended 
by striking ``Commencement.--'' and all that follows through ``a 
demonstration project,'' and inserting ``In General.--The Secretary of 
Defense may carry out demonstration projects''.

SEC. 842. ESTABLISHMENT OF INTEGRATED REVIEW TEAM ON DEFENSE 
              ACQUISITION INDUSTRY-GOVERNMENT EXCHANGE.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        direct the Defense Business Board to convene an integrated 
        review team (in this section referred to as the ``exchange 
        team'') to undertake a study on facilitating the exchange of 
        defense industry personnel on term assignments within the 
        Department of Defense.
            (2) Member participation.--
                    (A) Defense business board.--The Chairman of the 
                Defense Business Board shall select six members from 
                the membership of the Board to participate on the 
                exchange team, including one member to lead the team.
                    (B) Defense innovation board.--The Chairman of the 
                Defense Innovation Board shall select five appropriate 
                members from the membership of their Board to 
                participate on the exchange team.
                    (C) Defense science board.--The Chairman of the 
                Defense Science Board shall select five appropriate 
                members from the membership of their Board to 
                participate on the exchange team.
                    (D) Required experience.--The Chairmen referred to 
                in subparagraphs (a) through (C) shall ensure that 
                members have significant legislative or regulatory 
                expertise and reflect diverse experiences in the public 
                and private sector.
            (3) Scope.--The study conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) review legal, ethical, and financial disclosure 
                requirements for industry-government exchanges;
                    (B) review existing or previous industry-government 
                exchange programs such as the Department of State's 
                Franklin Fellows Program and the Information Technology 
                Exchange Program;
                    (C) review how the military departments address 
                legal, ethical, and financial requirements for members 
                of the reserve components who also maintain civilian 
                employment in the defense industry;
                    (D) produce specific and detailed recommendations 
                for any legislation, including the amendment or repeal 
                of regulations, as well as non-legislative approaches, 
                that the members of the exchange team conducting the 
                study determine necessary to--
                            (i) reduce barriers to industry-government 
                        exchange to encourage the flow of acquisition 
                        best practices;
                            (ii) ensure continuing financial and 
                        ethical integrity; and
                            (iii) protect the best interests of the 
                        Department of Defense; and
                    (E) produce such additional recommendations for 
                legislation as the members consider appropriate.
            (4) Access to information.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
        provide the exchange team with timely access to appropriate 
        information, data, resources, and analysis so that the exchange 
        team may conduct a thorough and independent analysis as 
        required under this subsection.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than December 31, 2018, the exchange team 
shall provide an interim briefing to the congressional defense 
committees on the study conducted under subsection (a)
    (c) Final Report.--Not later than March 1, 2019, the exchange team 
shall submit a final report on the study to the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and the congressional defense 
committees.

SEC. 843. EXCHANGE PROGRAM FOR ACQUISITION WORKFORCE EMPLOYEES.

    (a) Program Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
an exchange program under which the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment shall arrange for the temporary assignment 
of civilian personnel in the Department of Defense acquisition 
workforce.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the exchange program established 
pursuant to subsection (a) are--
            (1) to familiarize personnel from the acquisition workforce 
        with the equities, priorities, processes, culture, and 
        workforce of the acquisition-related defense agencies;
            (2) to enable participants in the exchange program to 
        return the expertise gained through their exchanges to their 
        original organizations; and
            (3) to improve communication between and integration of the 
        organizations that support the policy, implementation, and 
        oversight of defense acquisition through lasting relationships.
    (c) Participants.--
            (1) Number of participants.--The Under Secretary shall 
        select not less than 10 and no more than 20 participants per 
        year for participation in the exchange program established 
        under subsection (a).
            (2) Criteria for selection.--The Under Secretary shall 
        select participants for the exchange program established under 
        subsection (a) from among mid-career employees and based on--
                    (A) the qualifications and desire to participate in 
                the program of the employee; and
                    (B) the technical needs and capacities of the 
                acquisition workforce, as applicable.
    (d) Terms.--Exchanges pursuant to the exchange program established 
under subsection (a) shall be for terms of one to two years, as 
determined and negotiated by the Under Secretary. The terms may begin 
and end on a rolling basis.
    (e) Guidance and Implementation.--
            (1) Guidance.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall develop and 
        submit to the congressional defense committees interim guidance 
        on the form and contours of the exchange program established 
        under subsection (a).
            (2) Implementation.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall 
        implement the guidance developed under paragraph (1).

          Subtitle E--Provisions Relating to Commercial Items

SEC. 851. REPORT ON COMMERCIAL ITEM PROCUREMENT REFORM.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than March 1, 2020, the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, in consultation with members of 
the Defense Business Board as appropriate, shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on reforms for commercial item procurement.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) A review of recommendations by the independent panel 
        created under section 809 of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 112 Public Law 
        889) pertaining to commercial items.
            (2) A review of commercial item provisions from the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public 
        Law 114-92), the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328), the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91), and 
        other relevant legislation.
            (3) An analysis of the extent to which the Department of 
        Defense should treat commercial service contracts and 
        commercial products in a similar manner.
            (4) Such other matters with respect to commercial item 
        procurement as the Assistant Secretary considers appropriate.

                  Subtitle F--Industrial Base Matters

SEC. 861. NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE APPLICATION PROCESS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 148 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2509. National technology and industrial base application 
              process
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall administer a 
national technology and industrial base application process.
    ``(b) Elements.--The application process required under subsection 
(a) shall include the following elements:
            ``(1) The Secretary shall designate an official within the 
        Office of the Secretary of Defense responsible for 
        administration of the national technology and industrial base 
        application process and associated policy.
            ``(2) A person or organization that meets the definition of 
        national technology and industrial base under section 2500(1) 
        of this title shall have the opportunity to apply for an item 
        to be covered under the national technology and industrial 
        base. The application shall include, at a minimum, the 
        following information:
                    ``(A) Information demonstrating the applicant meets 
                such definition.
                    ``(B) The section or sections of this chapter, 
                related to the national technology and industrial base, 
                that the applicant seeks to modify.
                    ``(C) The applicant's proposed modifications to the 
                section or sections identified under subparagraph (B).
                    ``(D) For each item the applicant seeks to include 
                in the national technology and industrial base, the 
                applicant shall include the following information:
                            ``(i) The extent to which such item has 
                        commercial applications.
                            ``(ii) The number of such items to be 
                        procured by current programs of record.
                            ``(iii) The criticality of such item to a 
                        military unit's mission accomplishment.
                            ``(iv) The estimated cost and other 
                        considerations of reconstituting the 
                        manufacturing capability of such item, if not 
                        maintained in the national technology and 
                        industrial base.
                            ``(v) National security regulations or 
                        restrictions imposed on such item that may not 
                        be imposed on a non-national technology and 
                        industrial base competitor.
                            ``(vi) Non-national security-related 
                        Federal, State, and local government 
                        regulations imposed on such item that may not 
                        be imposed on a non-national technology and 
                        industrial base competitor.
                            ``(vii) The extent to which such item is 
                        fielded in current programs of record.
                            ``(viii) The extent to which cost and 
                        pricing data for such item has been deemed fair 
                        and reasonable.
    ``(c) Consideration of Applications.--
            ``(1) Responsibility of designated official.--The official 
        designated pursuant to subsection (b)(1) shall be responsible 
        for providing complete applications submitted pursuant to this 
        subsection to the appropriate component acquisition executive 
        for consideration not later than 15 days after receipt of such 
        application.
            ``(2) Review.--Not later than 60 days after receiving a 
        complete application, the component acquisition executive shall 
        review such application, make a determination, and return the 
        application to the official designated pursuant to subsection 
        (b)(1).
            ``(3) Elements of determination.--The determination 
        required under paragraph (2) shall--
                    ``(A) recommend the modification to this chapter 
                proposed pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(C);
                    ``(B) recommend the modification to this chapter 
                proposed pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(C) with further 
                modifications; or
                    ``(C) not recommend the modification to this 
                chapter proposed pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(C).
            ``(4) Justification.--The determination required under 
        paragraph (2) shall also include the rationale and 
        justification for the determination.
    ``(d) Recommendations for Legislation.--For applications 
recommended under subsection (c), the official designated pursuant to 
subsection (b)(1) shall be responsible for preparing a legislative 
proposal for consideration by the Secretary.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``2509. National technology and industrial base application process.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--Section 2509 of title 10, United States Code, 
as added by subsection (a), shall take effect 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 862. REPORT ON DEFENSE ELECTRONICS INDUSTRIAL BASE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than January 31, 2019, the Secretary of 
Defense, in consultation with the Executive Agent for Printed Circuit 
Board and Interconnect Technology and the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget, shall submit to Congress a report examining the 
health of the defense electronics industrial base, including analog and 
passive electronic parts, substrates, printed boards, assemblies, 
connectors, cabling, and related areas, both domestically and within 
the national technology and industrial base.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) An examination of current and planned partnerships with 
        the commercial industry.
            (2) Analysis of the current and future defense electronics 
        industrial base.
            (3) Threat assessment related to system security.
            (4) An assessment of the health of the engineering and 
        production workforce.
            (5) A description of the electronics supply chain 
        requirements of defense systems integral to meeting the goals 
        of the 2018 National Defense Strategy.
            (6) Recommended actions to address areas deemed deficient 
        or vulnerable, and a plan to formalize long-term resourcing for 
        the Executive Agent.
            (7) Any other areas matters determined relevant by the 
        Secretary.

SEC. 863. SUPPORT FOR DEFENSE MANUFACTURING COMMUNITIES TO SUPPORT THE 
              DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE.

    (a) Program Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of Commerce and working in 
        coordination with the defense manufacturing institutes, 
        establish within the Department of Defense a program to make 
        long-term investments in critical skills, infrastructure, 
        research and development, and small business support in order 
        to strengthen the national security innovation base by 
        designating and supporting consortiums as defense manufacturing 
        communities.
            (2) Designation.--The program authorized by this section 
        shall be known as the ``Defense Manufacturing Community Support 
        Program'' (in this section referred to as the ``Program'').
    (b) Designation of Defense Manufacturing Communities Complementary 
to Defense Manufacturing Institutes.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may designate 
        eligible consortiums as defense manufacturing communities 
        through a competitive process, and in coordination with the 
        defense manufacturing institutes.
            (2) Eligible consortiums.--The Secretary may establish 
        eligibility criteria for a consortium to participate in the 
        Program. In developing such criteria, the Secretary may 
        consider the merits of--
                    (A) including members from academia, defense 
                industry, commercial industry, and State and local 
                government organizations;
                    (B) supporting efforts in geographical regions that 
                have capabilities in key technologies or industrial 
                base supply chains that are determined critical to 
                national security;
                    (C) optimal consortium composition and size to 
                promote effectiveness, collaboration, and efficiency; 
                and
                    (D) complementarity with defense manufacturing 
                institutes.
            (3) Duration.--Each designation under paragraph (1) shall 
        be for a period designated by the Secretary.
            (4) Renewal.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may renew a 
                designation made under paragraph (1) for up to two 
                additional two-year periods. Any designation as a 
                defense manufacturing community or renewal of such 
                designation that is in effect before the date of the 
                enactment of this Act shall count toward the limit set 
                forth in this subparagraph.
                    (B) Evaluation for renewal.--The Secretary shall 
                establish criteria for the renewal of a consortium. In 
                establishing such criteria, the Secretary may 
                consider--
                            (i) the performance of the consortium in 
                        meeting the established goals of the Program;
                            (ii) the progress the consortium has made 
                        with respect to project-specific metrics, 
                        particularly with respect to those metrics that 
                        were designed to help communities track their 
                        own progress;
                            (iii) whether any changes to the 
                        composition of the eligible consortium or 
                        revisions of the plan for the consortium would 
                        improve the capabilities of the defense 
                        industrial base;
                            (iv) the effectiveness of coordination with 
                        defense manufacturing institutes; and
                            (v) such other criteria as the Secretary 
                        considers appropriate.
            (5) Application for designation.--An eligible consortium 
        seeking a designation under paragraph (1) shall submit an 
        application to the Secretary at such time and in such manner as 
        the Secretary may require. In developing such procedures, the 
        Secretary may consider the inclusion of--
                    (A) a description of the regional boundaries of the 
                consortium, and the defense manufacturing capacity of 
                the region;
                    (B) an evidence-based plan for enhancing the 
                defense industrial base through the efforts of the 
                consortium;
                    (C) the investments the consortium proposes and the 
                strategy of the consortium to address gaps in the 
                defense industrial base;
                    (D) a description of the outcome-based metrics, 
                benchmarks, and milestones that will track and the 
                evaluation methods that will be used to gauge 
                performance of the consortium;
                    (E) how the initiatives will complement defense 
                manufacturing institutes; and
                    (F) such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
    (c) Financial and Technical Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--Under the Program, the Secretary of 
        Defense may award financial or technical assistance to a member 
        of a consortium designated as a defense manufacturing community 
        under the Program as appropriate for purposes of the Program.
            (2) Use of funds.--A recipient of financial or technical 
        assistance under the Program may use such financial or 
        technical assistance to support an investment that will improve 
        the defense industrial base.
            (3) Investments supported.--Investments supported under 
        this subsection may include activities not already provided for 
        by defense manufacturing institutes on--
                    (A) infrastructure;
                    (B) access to capital;
                    (C) promotion of exports and foreign direct 
                investment;
                    (D) equipment or facility upgrades;
                    (E) workforce training, retraining, or recruitment 
                and retention, including that of women and 
                underrepresented minorities;
                    (F) energy or process efficiency;
                    (G) business incubators;
                    (H) site preparation;
                    (I) advanced research and commercialization, 
                including with Federal laboratories and depots;
                    (J) supply chain development; and
                    (K) small business assistance.
    (d) Receipt of Transferred Funds.--The Secretary of Defense may 
accept amounts transferred to the Secretary from the head of another 
agency or a State or local governmental organization to carry out this 
section.

                     Subtitle G--Other Transactions

SEC. 871. CHANGE TO NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT FOR OTHER TRANSACTIONS.

    Section 2371b(f)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting after the first sentence the following: ``The cost of any 
such option shall be considered for purposes of subsection (a)(2) as 
part of the cost to the Department of Defense of a transaction (for a 
prototype).''.

SEC. 872. DATA AND POLICY ON THE USE OF OTHER TRANSACTIONS.

    (a) Collection and Storage.--The Service Acquisition Executives of 
the military departments shall collect data on the use of other 
transactions by their respective departments, and the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Research and Engineering and the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall collect data on all other 
use by the Department of Defense of other transactions, including use 
by the Defense Agencies. The data shall be stored in a manner that 
allows the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Acquisition access at any 
time.
    (b) Use of Data.--The Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition shall analyze and leverage the data collected under 
subsection (a) to update policy and guidance related to the use of 
other transactions.

   Subtitle H--Development and Acquisition of Software Intensive and 
                     Digital Products and Services

SEC. 881. CLARIFICATIONS REGARDING PROPRIETARY AND TECHNICAL DATA.

    (a) Validation of Proprietary Data Restrictions.--Section 2321(f) 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        in'' and inserting ``In''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (2).
    (b) Rights in Technical Data.--Section 2320 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (f); and
            (2) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections 
        (f) and (g), respectively.

SEC. 882. IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FINAL REPORT OF THE 
              DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD TASK FORCE ON THE DESIGN AND 
              ACQUISITION OF SOFTWARE FOR DEFENSE SYSTEMS.

    (a) Implementation Required.--Not later than 18 months after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, 
except as provided under subsection (b), commence implementation of 
each recommendation submitted as part of the final report of the 
Defense Science Board Task Force on the Design and Acquisition of 
Software for Defense Systems.
    (b) Exceptions.--
            (1) Delayed implementation.--The Secretary of Defense may 
        commence implementation of a recommendation described under 
        subsection (a) later than the date required under such 
        subsection if the Secretary provides the congressional defense 
        committees with a specific justification for the delay in 
        implementation of such recommendation.
            (2) Nonimplementation.--The Secretary of Defense may opt 
        not to implement a recommendation described under subsection 
        (a) if the Secretary provides to the congressional defense 
        committees--
                    (A) the reasons for the decision not to implement 
                the recommendation; and
                    (B) a summary of the alternative actions the 
                Secretary plans to take to address the purposes 
                underlying the recommendation.
    (c) Implementation Plans.--For each recommendation that the 
Secretary is implementing, or that the Secretary plans to implement, 
the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees--
            (1) a summary of actions that have been taken to implement 
        the recommendation; and
            (2) a schedule, with specific milestones, for completing 
        the implementation of the recommendation.

SEC. 883. IMPLEMENTATION OF PILOT PROGRAM TO USE AGILE OR ITERATIVE 
              DEVELOPMENT METHODS REQUIRED UNDER SECTION 873 OF THE 
              NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall include the 
following systems for realignment under the pilot program to use agile 
or iterative development methods pursuant to section 873 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
115-91):
            (1) Global Positioning System Next Generation Operational 
        Control System (GPS OCX).
            (2) Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command 
        System (IBCS).
            (3) Command Control Battle Management and Communications 
        (C2BMC).
            (4) The family of Distributed Common Ground Systems.
            (5) The family of Global Command and Control Systems.
            (6) Joint Space Operations Center Mission Systems (JMS).
            (7) Joint Strike Fighter Autonomic Logistics Information 
        System (ALIS).
            (8) Electronic Procurement System (ePS).
            (9) Air Force Integrated Personnel and Pay System (AFIPPS).
            (10) Navy Personnel and Pay (NP2).
            (11) Integrated Personnel and Pay-Army (IPPS-A).
            (12) Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul (MROI).
            (13) Defense Enterprise Accounting Management System 
        (DEAMS).
            (14) Army Contract Writing System.
            (15) Contracting IT System.
            (16) Defense-wide Electronic Procurement Capabilities.
    (b) Revisions to List.--The Secretary of Defense shall notify the 
congressional defense committees of any revisions to the list of 
systems included for realignment under subsection (a).

SEC. 884. ENABLING AND OTHER ACTIVITIES OF THE CLOUD EXECUTIVE STEERING 
              GROUP.

    (a) Activities Required.--Commencing not later than 90 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Cloud Executive Steering 
Group (CESG) established by the Deputy Secretary of Defense in a 
directive memorandum dated September 13, 2017, in order to support its 
Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure (JEDI) initiative to procure 
commercial cloud services, shall conduct certain key enabling 
activities as follows:
            (1) Advanced commercial network capabilities.--Develop an 
        approach to rapidly acquire advanced commercial network 
        capabilities, including software-defined networking, on-demand 
        bandwidth, and aggregated cloud access gateways, through 
        commercial service providers in order--
                    (A) to support the migration of applications and 
                systems to commercial cloud platforms;
                    (B) to increase visibility of end-to-end 
                performance to enable and enforce service level 
                agreements for cloud services;
                    (C) to ensure efficient and common cloud access;
                    (D) to facilitate shifting data and applications 
                from one cloud platform to another;
                    (E) to improve cybersecurity; and
                    (F) to consolidate networks and achieve 
                efficiencies and improved performance;
            (2) Workload and migration analysis.--Conduct an analysis 
        of existing workloads that would be migrated to the Joint 
        Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, including--
                    (A) identifying all of the cloud initiatives across 
                the Department of Defense, and determining the 
                objectives of such initiatives in connection with the 
                intended scope of the Infrastructure;
                    (B) identifying all the systems and applications 
                that the Department would intend to migrate to the 
                Infrastructure;
                    (C) conducting rationalization of applications to 
                identify applications and systems that may duplicate 
                the processing of workloads in connection with the 
                Infrastructure; and
                    (D) as result of such actions, arriving at 
                dispositions about migration or termination of systems 
                and applications in connection with the Infrastructure.
    (b) Limitation on New Systems and Applications.--The Deputy 
Secretary shall require that no new system or application will be 
approved for development or modernization without an assessment that 
such system or application is already, or can and would be, cloud-
hosted.
    (c) Integration and Support.--The Deputy Secretary shall ensure 
that the activities conducted under subsection (a) are integrated with 
and support the plan of the Department to acquire and migrate to 
commercial cloud services.
    (d) Transparency and Competition.--The Deputy Secretary shall 
ensure that the acquisition approach of the Department continues to 
follow the Federal Acquisition Regulation, including part 16.504(c) of 
such regulation, regarding procedures relating to the preference for 
multiple awards.

                       Subtitle I--Other Matters

SEC. 891. PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES OR 
              EQUIPMENT.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) In its 2011 ``Annual Report to Congress on Military and 
        Security Developments Involving the People's Republic of 
        China'', the Department of Defense stated, ``China's defense 
        industry has benefited from integration with a rapidly 
        expanding civilian economy and science and technology sector, 
        particularly elements that have access to foreign technology. 
        Progress within individual defense sectors appears linked to 
        the relative integration of each, through China's civilian 
        economy, into the global production and R&D chain . . . 
        Information technology companies in particular, including 
        Huawei, Datang, and Zhongxing, maintain close ties to the 
        PLA.''.
            (2) In a 2011 report titled ``The National Security 
        Implications of Investments and Products from the People's 
        Republic of China in the Telecommunications Sector'', the 
        United States China Commission stated that ``[n]ational 
        security concerns have accompanied the dramatic growth of 
        China's telecom sector. . . . Additionally, large Chinese 
        companies--particularly those `national champions' prominent in 
        China's `going out' strategy of overseas expansion--are 
        directly subject to direction by the Chinese Communist Party, 
        to include support for PRC state policies and goals.''.
            (3) The Commission further stated in its report that 
        ``[f]rom this point of view, the clear economic benefits of 
        foreign investment in the U.S. must be weighed against the 
        potential security concerns related to infrastructure 
        components coming under the control of foreign entities. This 
        seems particularly applicable in the telecommunications 
        industry, as Chinese companies continue systematically to 
        acquire significant holdings in prominent global and U.S. 
        telecommunications and information technology companies.''.
            (4) In its 2011 Annual Report to Congress, the United 
        States China Commission stated that ``[t]he extent of the 
        state's control of the Chinese economy is difficult to quantify 
        . . . There is also a category of companies that, though 
        claiming to be private, are subject to state influence. Such 
        companies are often in new markets with no established SOE 
        leaders and enjoy favorable government policies that support 
        their development while posing obstacles to foreign 
        competition. Examples include Chinese telecoms giant Huawei and 
        such automotive companies as battery maker BYD and vehicle 
        manufacturers Geely and Chery.''.
            (5) General Michael Hayden, who served as Director of the 
        Central Intelligence Agency and Director of the National 
        Security Agency, stated in July 2013 that Huawei had ``shared 
        with the Chinese state intimate and extensive knowledge of 
        foreign telecommunications systems it is involved with''.
            (6) The Federal Bureau of Investigation, in a February 2015 
        Counterintelligence Strategy Partnership Intelligence Note 
        stated that, ``[w]ith the expanded use of Huawei Technologies 
        Inc. equipment and services in U.S. telecommunications service 
        provider networks, the Chinese Government's potential access to 
        U.S. business communications is dramatically increasing. 
        Chinese Government-supported telecommunications equipment on 
        U.S. networks may be exploited through Chinese cyber activity, 
        with China's intelligence services operating as an advanced 
        persistent threat to U.S. networks.''.
            (7) The FBI further stated in its February 2015 
        counterintelligence note that ``China makes no secret that its 
        cyber warfare strategy is predicated on controlling global 
        communications network infrastructure''.
            (8) At a hearing before the Committee on Armed Services of 
        the House of Representatives on September 30, 2015, Deputy 
        Secretary of Defense Robert Work, responding to a question 
        about the use of Huawei telecommunications equipment, stated, 
        ``In the Office of the Secretary of Defense, absolutely not. 
        And I know of no other--I don't believe we operate in the 
        Pentagon, any [Huawei] systems in the Pentagon.''.
            (9) At that hearing, the Commander of the United States 
        Cyber Command, Admiral Mike Rogers, responding to a question 
        about why such Huawei telecommunications equipment is not used, 
        stated, ``As we look at supply chain and we look at potential 
        vulnerabilities within the system, that it is a risk we felt 
        was unacceptable.''.
            (10) In March 2017, ZTE Corporation pled guilty to 
        conspiring to violate the International Emergency Economic 
        Powers Act by illegally shipping U.S.-origin items to Iran, 
        paying the United States Government a penalty of $892,360,064 
        for activity between January 2010 and January 2016.
            (11) The Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign 
        Assets Control issued a subpoena to Huawei as part of a Federal 
        investigation of alleged violations of trade restrictions on 
        Cuba, Iran, Sudan, and Syria.
            (12) In the bipartisan ``Investigative Report on the United 
        States National Security Issues Posed by Chinese 
        Telecommunication Companies Huawei and ZTE'' released in 2012 
        by the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
        of Representatives, it was recommended that ``U.S. government 
        systems, particularly sensitive systems, should not include 
        Huawei or ZTE equipment, including in component parts. 
        Similarly, government contractors--particularly those working 
        on contracts for sensitive U.S. programs--should exclude ZTE or 
        Huawei equipment in their systems.''.
    (b) Prohibition on Use or Procurement.--The Secretary of Defense 
may not--
            (1) procure or obtain or extend or renew a contract to 
        procure or obtain any equipment, system, or service that uses 
        covered telecommunications equipment or services as a 
        substantial or essential component of any system, or as 
        critical technology as part of any system; or
            (2) enter into a contract (or extend or renew a contract) 
        with an entity that uses any equipment, system, or service that 
        uses covered telecommunications equipment or services as a 
        substantial or essential component of any system, or as 
        critical technology as part of any system.
    (c) Effective Dates.--The prohibition under subsection (b)(1) shall 
take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and 
the prohibition under subsection (b)(2) shall take effect three years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to--
            (1) prohibit the Secretary of Defense from procuring with 
        an entity to provide a service that connects to the facilities 
        of a third-party, such as backhaul, roaming, or interconnection 
        arrangements; or
            (2) cover telecommunications equipment that cannot route or 
        redirect user data traffic or permit visibility into any user 
        data or packets that such equipment transmits or otherwise 
        handles
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered foreign country.--The term ``covered foreign 
        country'' means the People's Republic of China.
            (2) Covered telecommunications equipment or services.--The 
        term ``covered telecommunications equipment or services'' means 
        any of the following:
                    (A) Telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei 
                Technologies Company or ZTE Corporation (or any 
                subsidiary or affiliate of such entities).
                    (B) Telecommunications services provided by such 
                entities or using such equipment.
                    (C) Telecommunications equipment or services 
                produced or provided by an entity that the Secretary of 
                Defense, in consultation with the Director of the 
                National Intelligence or the Director of the Federal 
                Bureau of Investigation, reasonably believes to be an 
                entity owned or controlled by, or otherwise connected 
                to, the government of a covered foreign country.

SEC. 892. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS PENDING SUBMITTAL OF REPORT ON 
              ARMY MARKETING AND ADVERTISING PROGRAM.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        House of Representatives a report on the recommendations 
        contained in the audit of the Army Audit Agency of the Army's 
        Marketing and Advertising Program concerning contract oversight 
        and return on investment.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        address each of the following:
                    (A) The mitigation and oversight measures 
                implemented to assure improved program return and 
                contract management, including the establishment of 
                specific goals to measure long-term effects of 
                investments in marketing efforts.
                    (B) The establishment of a review process to 
                regularly evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of 
                marketing efforts, including efforts to better support 
                the accessions missions of the Army.
                    (C) The increase of acquisition and marketing 
                experience within the Army Marketing and Research Group 
                (in this section referred to as the ``AMRG'').
                    (D) A workforce analysis of AMRG in cooperation 
                with the Office of Personnel Management and industry 
                experts assessing the AMRG organizational structure, 
                staffing, and training, including an assessment of the 
                workplace climate and culture internal to the AMRG.
                    (E) The establishment of an Army Marketing and 
                Advisory Board comprised of senior Army and marketing 
                and advertising leaders and an assessment of industry 
                and service marketing and advertising best practices, 
                including a plan to incorporate relevant practices.
                    (F) The status of the implementation of contracting 
                practices recommended by the Army Audit Agency's audit 
                of contracting oversight of AMRG contained in Audit 
                Report A-2018-0033-MTH.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Not more than 50 percent of the 
amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for the AMRG for fiscal year 2019 for advertising and 
marketing activities may be obligated or expended until the Secretary 
of the Army submits the report required under subsection (a).
    (c) Comptroller General Review.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date of the submittal of the report required under subsection (a), the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a review of the 
results and implementation of the recommendations of the Army Audit 
Agency Audits of the AMRG on contract oversight and return on 
investment. The review shall include an assessment of the effects of 
the implementation of the recommendations on the AMRG leadership, 
workforce, and business practices, and return on investment.

SEC. 893. PERMANENT SBIR AND STTR AUTHORITY FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE.

    Section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (m), by inserting ``, except with respect 
        to the Department of Defense'' after ``September 30, 2022''; 
        and
            (2) in subsection (n)(1)(A)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(or, with respect to the 
                Department of Defense, any fiscal year)'' after 
                ``2022''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``(or, with respect to the 
                Department of Defense, for any fiscal year)'' after 
                ``for that fiscal year''.

SEC. 894. PROCUREMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SUPPLIES FOR EXPERIMENTAL 
              PURPOSES.

    Section 2373 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``telecommunications,'' after ``space flight,''.

SEC. 895. ACCESS BY DEVELOPMENTAL AND OPERATIONAL TESTING ACTIVITIES TO 
              DATA REGARDING MODELING AND SIMULATION ACTIVITY.

    (a) In General.--Section 139(e) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) The Director shall have prompt access to all data regarding 
modeling and simulation activity proposed to be used by military 
departments and defense agencies in support of operational or live fire 
test and evaluation of military capabilities. This access shall include 
data associated with verification, validation, and accreditation 
activities.''.
    (b) Additional Testing Data.--Developmental Test and Evaluation 
activities under the leadership of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Research and Engineering and the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment shall have prompt access to all data 
regarding modeling and simulation activity proposed to be used by 
military departments and defense agencies in support of developmental 
test and evaluation of military capabilities. This access shall include 
data associated with verification, validation, and accreditation 
activities.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

SEC. 901. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR 
              RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING IN CONNECTION WITH PRIORITY 
              EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES.

    (a) In General.--In carrying out duties under section 133a of title 
10, United States Code, in connection with the National Defense 
Strategy of the Department of Defense of 2018, the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Research and Engineering shall have the authority to direct 
the Secretaries of the military departments, and the heads of all other 
elements of the Department of Defense with regard to matters for which 
the Under Secretary has responsibility, with respect to programs, 
projects, and activities in connection with technology areas given 
priority, including technology areas as follows:
            (1) Directed energy.
            (2) Hypersonics.
            (3) Artificial intelligence.
            (4) Future space satellite architectures.
    (b) Direction of Secretary of Defense.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretary shall carry out any 
        powers and duties under this section under the authority, 
        direction, and control of the Secretary.
            (2) Construction of authority.--Nothing in this section may 
        be construed as altering or revising the authority, direction, 
        and control of the Under Secretary by the Secretary of Defense 
        and the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
    (c) Satellite Architectures.--
            (1) No directional authority for space launch vehicles.--
        The authority in subsection (a) with respect to future space 
        satellite architectures does not include the following:
                    (A) Authority for space launch vehicles.
                    (B) Authority for direction of the Evolved 
                Expendable Launch Vehicle program, including any 
                program, project, or activity relating to the Next 
                Generation Launch System.
            (2) Final decisional authority on architectures.--The 
        Deputy Secretary of Defense shall have final decisional 
        authority over any decision on future space satellite 
        architecture under the authority in subsection (a). The Deputy 
        Secretary shall exercise such final decisional authority in 
        consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments.
    (d) Coordination.--In executing powers and duties under this 
section, the Under Secretary shall consult with appropriate officials 
of the military departments and the Defense Agencies in order to 
maximize support of effective and efficient execution of the National 
Defense Strategy referred to in subsection (a).
    (e) Expiration.--The authority of the Under Secretary under this 
section shall expire on the date that is one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 902. REDESIGNATION AND MODIFICATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES OF UNDER 
              SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR PERSONNEL AND READINESS.

    (a) Redesignation and Responsibilities as Under Secretary of 
Defense for Personnel.--
            (1) In general.--Section 136 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and Readiness'' each place it 
                appears; and
                    (B) by striking subsection (d).
            (2) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 136. Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel''.
    (b) Designation as Chief Human Capital Officer.--Such section is 
further amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The Under Secretary is the Chief Human Capital Officer of the 
Department of Defense for purposes of chapter 14 of title 5.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 4 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 136 and inserting the following new item:

``136. Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel.''.
    (d) Other Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Title 10, united states code.--Title 10, United States 
        Code, is further amended as follows:
                    (A) In section 131(b)(3), by striking subparagraph 
                (E) and inserting the following new subparagraph (E):
                    ``(D) The Undersecretary of Defense for 
                Personnel.''.
                    (B) In section 137(c), by striking ``and 
                Readiness''.
            (2) Executive schedule level iii.--Section 5314 of title 5, 
        United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to 
        the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and 
        inserting the following new item:
            ``Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel.''.
    (e) References.--Any reference to the Under Secretary of Defense 
for Personnel and Readiness in any law, regulation, map, document, 
record, or other paper of the United States shall be deemed to be a 
reference to the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel.

SEC. 903. MODIFICATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF 
              DEFENSE FOR POLICY.

    (a) In General.--Paragraph (2) of section 134(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(2) The Under Secretary shall assist the Secretary of Defense in 
the following:
            ``(A) Preparing the National Defense Strategy, as required 
        by section 113 of this title.
            ``(B) Preparing policy guidance for the preparation of 
        campaign and contingency plans by the commanders of the 
        combatant commands, and in reviewing such plans.
            ``(C) Preparing policy guidance for the development of the 
        global force posture.
            ``(D) Preparing policy guidance to direct the formulation 
        of program and budget requests by the military departments and 
        other elements of the Department of Defense, and reviewing such 
        requests in the anual planning, programming, and budget 
        process.
            ``(E) Developing planning scenarios that describe the 
        present and future strategic and operational environments by 
        which to assess joint force capabilities and readiness.
            ``(F) Developing specific outcomes that the joint force 
        should be ready to achieve and conducting assessments of the 
        readiness of the joint force to achieve such outcomes.
            ``(G) Devising specific criteria to direct reviews by the 
        Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation of the 
        implementation of the capability and readiness priorities of 
        the Secretary.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on February 1, 2019.

SEC. 904. REPORT ON ALLOCATION OF FORMER RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE UNDER 
              SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR ACQUISITION, TECHNOLOGY, AND 
              LOGISTICS.

    Not later than March 1, 2019, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report setting forth the following:
            (1) A list of each provision of law, whether within or 
        outside title 10, United States Code, in force as of the date 
        of the report that, as of that date, assigns a duty, 
        responsibility, or other requirement to the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
            (2) For each duty, responsibility, or other requirement 
        specified in a provision of law listed pursuant to paragraph 
        (1), the allocation of such duty, responsibility, or 
        requirement within the Department of Defense, including--
                    (A) solely to the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Research and Engineering;
                    (B) solely to the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition and Sustainment;
                    (C) on a shared basis between the Under Secretary 
                of Defense for Research and Engineering and the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment;
                    (D) solely to another official or organization of 
                the Department;
                    (E) on a shared basis between other officials and 
                organizations of the Department; or
                    (F) not allocated.

SEC. 905. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR STRATEGY, PLANS, 
              ASSESSMENTS, READINESS, AND CAPABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 138(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5)(A) One of the Assistant Secretaries is the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Strategy, Plans, Assessments, Readiness and 
Capabilities.
    ``(B) The principal duty of the Assistant Secretary shall be to 
support the Secretary of Defense in developing the National Defense 
Strategy (as required by section 113 of this title) and related policy 
guidance for the campaign and contingency plans, force development and 
defense posture priorities, and readiness objectives required to 
execute the Strategy.
    ``(C) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the 
Secretary and the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, the Assistant 
Secretary shall be responsible for the following:
            ``(i) In matters relating to strategy and force planning, 
        the following:
                    ``(I) Supporting the Secretary and the Under 
                Secretary in preparing the National Defense Strategy.
                    ``(II) Producing policy guidance to direct the 
                formulation of program and budget requests by the 
                military departments and other elements of the 
                Department, including the Defense Planning Guidance as 
                required by section 113 of this title, and review such 
                program and budget requests.
                    ``(III) Proposing alternative force sizes and 
                structures, joint capabilities and concepts, and roles 
                and missions for the armed forces to inform the 
                development of annual program and budget requests.
            ``(ii) In matters relating to plans and force posture, the 
        following:
                    ``(I) Supporting the Secretary and the Under 
                Secretary in producing policy guidance to inform the 
                development of campaign and contingency plans by the 
                commanders of the combatant commands, including the 
                Contingency Planning Guidance for Employment of the 
                Force and the Global Defense Posture Report as required 
                by section 113 of this title, and reviewing such plans.
                    ``(II) Advising the Secretary and the Under 
                Secretary on alternative concepts for the employment 
                and posture of the joint force to align with the 
                National Defense Strategy and other approved policy 
                guidance of the Secretary.
            ``(iii) In matters relating to assessments, the following:
                    ``(I) Developing planning scenarios that describe 
                the present and future strategic and operational 
                environments by which to assess joint force 
                capabilities and readiness.
                    ``(II) Producing detailed assessments at the 
                strategic, campaign, and mission levels (including 
                through war games) to evaluate the present and future 
                capability and readiness of the armed forces to conduct 
                joint military campaigns or competitions that are 
                prioritized in approved policy guidance of the 
                Secretary.
                    ``(III) Devising specific criteria to direct 
                reviews by the Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
                Evaluation of the implementation of the capability and 
                readiness priorities established in approved policy 
                guidance of the Secretary.
            ``(iv) In matters relating to readiness, the following:
                    ``(I) Describing the strategic, campaign, and 
                mission outcomes that the joint force should be ready 
                to achieve and by which joint force readiness will be 
                assessed, in accordance with approved strategic 
                guidance of the Secretary.
                    ``(II) Conducting assessments of the readiness of 
                the joint force to perform the missions prioritized in 
                the National Defense Strategy and other approved policy 
                guidance of the Secretary, including through the 
                observation of military training and exercises.
            ``(v) In matters relating to strategic capabilities, 
        developing and supervising policy, program planning and 
        execution, and allocation and use of resources for any 
        strategic capabilities designated by the Under Secretary.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect on February 1, 2019.

SEC. 906. CLARIFICATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF THE CHIEF 
              INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Section 142(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``(other than with 
        respect to business systems and management)'' after ``sections 
        3506(a)(2)'';
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``section 11315 of 
        title 40'' and inserting ``sections 11315 and 11319 of title 40 
        (other than with respect to business systems and management)''; 
        and
            (3) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``sections 2222, 
        2223(a), and 2224 of this title'' and inserting ``sections 
        2223(a) (other than with respect to business systems and 
        management) and 2224 of this title''.

SEC. 907. SPECIFICATION OF CERTAIN DUTIES OF THE DEFENSE TECHNICAL 
              INFORMATION CENTER.

    (a) In General.--In addition to any other duties specified for the 
Defense Technical Information Center by law, regulation, or Department 
of Defense directive or instruction, the duties of the Center shall 
include the following:
            (1) To execute the Global Research Watch Program under 
        section 2365 of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) To develop and maintain datasets and other data 
        repositories on research and engineering activities being 
        conducted within the Department.
    (b) Action Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a plan of action for the commencement by the Defense 
Technical Information Center of the duties specified in subsection (a).

SEC. 908. LIMITATION ON TERMINATION OF, AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS, 
              RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACTIVITIES OF, THE STRATEGIC 
              CAPABILITIES OFFICE.

    (a) Limitation.--The Secretary of Defense may not terminate the 
Strategic Capabilities Office or transfer the functions or 
responsibilities of such office to another entity or organization until 
the Secretary--
            (1) certifies to the congressional defense committees that 
        the key functions, responsibilities, and activities of the 
        office will be replicated and managed elsewhere after such 
        office has been terminated or its functions, responsibilities, 
        or activities have been transferred;
            (2) submits to the congressional defense committees--
                    (A) a plan to replicate and manage such functions, 
                responsibilities, and activities elsewhere; and
                    (B) if the Secretary decides that the Strategic 
                Capabilities Office, or subsequent entity, should 
                report to an official other than the Under Secretary 
                for Research and Engineering, a justification for such 
                decision.
    (b) Key Functions.--The key functions of the office referred to in 
subsection (a)(1) are the following:
            (1) Repurposing existing Government and commercial systems 
        for new technological advantage.
            (2) Developing novel concepts of operation that are lower 
        cost, more effective, and more responsive to changing threats 
        than traditional concepts of operation.
            (3) Developing joint systems and concepts of operations to 
        meet emerging threats and military requirements based on 
        partnerships with the military services and combatant 
        commanders.
            (4) Developing prototypes and new concepts of operations 
        that can inform the development of requirements and the 
        establishment of acquisition programs.
            (5) Such other functions as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.

SEC. 909. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TEST RESOURCE 
              MANAGEMENT CENTER AUTHORITY.

    Section 196 of title 10, United States Code, is amended in 
subsections (c)(1)(B) and (g) by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense 
for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Under 
Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering''.

Subtitle B--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

SEC. 921. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CHAIRMAN OF 
              THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF RELATING TO JOINT FORCE CONCEPT 
              DEVELOPMENT.

    Subparagraph (D) of section 153(a)(6) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(D) formulating policies for development and 
                experimentation on both urgent and long-term concepts 
                for the joint employment of the armed forces, including 
                establishment of a process within the Joint Staff for--
                            ``(i) analyzing and prioritizing gaps in 
                        capabilities that could potentially be 
                        addressed by joint concept development using 
                        existing or modified joint force capabilities; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) ensuring that such joint concepts 
                        are tested, assessed and, if appropriate, 
                        fielded to support the joint force;''.

SEC. 922. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS AND 
              LOW-INTENSITY CONFLICT REVIEW OF UNITED STATES SPECIAL 
              OPERATIONS COMMAND.

    (a) Review Required.--The Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict shall, in coordination 
with the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command, 
conduct a comprehensive review of the United States Special Operations 
Command for purposes of ensuring that the institutional and operational 
capabilities of special operations forces are appropriate to counter 
anticipated future threats across the spectrum of conflict.
    (b) Scope of Review.--The review required by subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following:
            (1) An assessment of the adequacy of special operations 
        forces doctrine, organization, training, materiel, education, 
        personnel, and facilities to implement the 2018 National 
        Defense Strategy, and recommendations, if any, for 
        modifications for that purpose.
            (2) An assessment of the roles and responsibilities of 
        special operations forces as assigned by law, Department of 
        Defense guidance, or other formal designation and 
        recommendations, if any, for additions to or divestitures of 
        such roles or responsibilities.
            (3) An assessment of the adequacy of the processes through 
        which the United States Special Operations Command evaluates 
        and prioritizes the requirements at the geographic combatant 
        commands for special operations forces and special operations-
        unique capabilities and makes recommendations on the allocation 
        of special operations forces and special operations-unique 
        capabilities to meet such requirements, and recommendations, if 
        any, for modifications of such processes.
            (4) Any other matters the Assistant Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Deadlines.--
            (1) Completion of review.--The review required by 
        subsection (a) shall be completed by not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 30 days after completion of the 
        review, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the review, 
        including the findings and any recommendations of the Assistant 
        Secretary as a result of the review.

SEC. 923. QUALIFICATIONS FOR APPOINTMENT AS DEPUTY CHIEF MANAGEMENT 
              OFFICER OF A MILITARY DEPARTMENT.

    (a) Department of the Army.--An individual may not be appointed as 
Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of the Army unless 
the individual--
            (1) has significant experience in business operations or 
        management in the public sector; or
            (2) has significant experience managing an enterprise in 
        the private sector.
    (b) Department of the Navy.--An individual may not be appointed as 
Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of the Navy unless 
the individual--
            (1) has significant experience in business operations or 
        management in the public sector; or
            (2) has significant experience managing an enterprise in 
        the private sector.
    (c) Department of the Air Force.--An individual may not be 
appointed as Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of the 
Air Force unless the individual--
            (1) has significant experience in business operations or 
        management in the public sector; or
            (2) has significant experience managing an enterprise in 
        the private sector.

SEC. 924. EXPANSION OF PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE 
              NAVY FOR RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND ACQUISITION.

    Section 5016(b)(4)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``and acquisition matters'' and inserting ``acquisition, 
and sustainment (including maintenance) matters''.

SEC. 925. CROSS-FUNCTIONAL TEAMS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Establishment of Certain Teams.--
            (1) In general.--Among the cross-functional teams 
        established by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection 
        (c) of section 911 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2345; 10 
        U.S.C. 111 note) in support of the organizational strategy for 
        the Department of Defense required by subsection (a) of that 
        section, the Secretary shall establish a cross-functional team 
        on each matter as follows:
                    (A) Electronic warfare.
                    (B) Personnel security.
                    (C) Close combat lethality.
            (2) Establishment and activities.--Each cross-functional 
        team established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be established 
        in accordance with subsection (c) of section 911 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, and 
        shall be governed in its activities in accordance with the 
        provisions of such subsection (c).
            (3) Deadline for establishment.--The cross-functional teams 
        required by paragraph (1) shall be established by not later 
        than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Additional Cross-functional Teams Matters.--
            (1) Criteria for distinguishing among cross-functional 
        teams.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, the Secretary shall issue criteria that 
        distinguish cross-functional teams under section 911 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 from 
        other types of cross-functional working groups, committees, 
        integrated product teams, and task forces of the Department.
            (2) Primary responsibility for implementation of teams.--
        The Deputy Secretary of Defense shall establish or designate an 
        office within the Department that shall have primary 
        responsibility for implementing section 911 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.

SEC. 926. DEADLINE FOR COMPLETION OF FULL IMPLEMENTATION OF 
              REQUIREMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH ORGANIZATION OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR MANAGEMENT OF SPECIAL 
              OPERATIONS FORCES AND SPECIAL OPERATIONS.

    The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the implementation of 
section 922 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2354) and the amendments made by 
that section is fully complete by not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

 Subtitle C--Organization and Management of the Department of Defense 
                               Generally

SEC. 931. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR MAJOR HEADQUARTERS 
              ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 2 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 117 the following new section:
``Sec. 118. Major headquarters activities: limitation on funds 
              available
    ``(a) Overall Limitation.--In any fiscal year after fiscal year 
2020, the aggregate amount that may be obligated and expended on major 
headquarters activities may not exceed an amount equal to 1.6 percent 
of the average amount authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense (including for overseas contingency operations) over the 10 
fiscal years ending with the preceding fiscal year.
    ``(b) Limitations on Availability for Particular Activities.--
Within the amount available for a fiscal year pursuant to subsection 
(a), amounts shall be available as follows:
            ``(1) For the Office of the Secretary of Defense, not more 
        than an amount equal to 0.4 percent of the average amount 
        authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense 
        (including for overseas contingency operations) over the 10 
        fiscal years ending with the preceding fiscal year.
            ``(2) For the major headquarters activities of a military 
        department, not more than an amount equal to 1 percent of the 
        average amount authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
        of Defense (including for overseas contingency operations) for 
        such military department over the 10 fiscal years ending with 
        the preceding fiscal year.
    ``(c) Distribution of Remaining Funds.--Any funds available in a 
fiscal year for major headquarters activities under subsection (a) 
after the operation of subsection (b) in connection with such fiscal 
year may be distributed for availability by the Secretary of Defense 
among any major headquarters activities other than the Office of the 
Secretary of Defense.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `major headquarters activities' has the 
        meaning given the term `major Department of Defense 
        headquarters activities' in section 346(b)(3) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 111 
        note).
            ``(2) The term `major headquarters activities of a military 
        department' means the following:
                    ``(A) In the case of the Army, the Office of the 
                Secretary of the Army and the Army Staff.
                    ``(B) In the case of the Navy, the Office of the 
                Secretary of the Navy, the Office of the Chief of Naval 
                Operations, and Headquarters, Marine Corps.
                    ``(C) In the case of the Air Force, the Office of 
                the Secretary of the Air Force and the Air Staff.
            ``(3) The term `Office of the Secretary of Defense' 
        includes the Joint Staff.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 2 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 117 the following new item:

``118. Major headquarters activities: limitation on funds available.''.

SEC. 932. RESPONSIBILITY FOR POLICY ON CIVILIAN CASUALTY MATTERS.

    (a) Designation of Senior Civilian Official.--Not later than 90 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Policy shall designate a senior civilian official of the 
Department of Defense at or above the level of Assistant Secretary of 
Defense to develop, coordinate, and oversee compliance with the policy 
of the Department relating to civilian casualties resulting from United 
States military operations.
    (b) Responsibilities.--The senior civilian official designated 
under subsection (a) shall ensure that the policy referred to in that 
subsection provides for--
            (1) uniform processes and standards across the combatant 
        commands for accurately recording kinetic strikes by the United 
        States military;
            (2) the development and dissemination of best practices for 
        reducing the likelihood of civilian casualties from United 
        States military operations;
            (3) the development of a publicly available Internet portal 
        for the submittal of allegations of civilian casualties 
        resulting from United States military operations;
            (4) uniform processes and standards across the combatant 
        commands for reviewing and investigating allegations of 
        civilian casualties resulting from United States military 
        operations, including the consideration of relevant information 
        from all available sources;
            (5) uniform processes and standards across the combatant 
        commands for--
                    (A) acknowledging the responsibility of the United 
                States military for civilian casualties resulting from 
                United States military operations; and
                    (B) offering ex gratia payments to civilians who 
                have been injured, or to the families of civilians 
                killed, as a result of United States military 
                operations, as determined to be necessary by the 
                designated senior civilian official;
            (6) regular engagement with relevant intergovernmental and 
        nongovernmental organizations; and
            (7) public affairs guidance with respect to matters 
        relating to civilian casualties alleged or confirmed to have 
        resulted from United States military operations; and
            (8) such other matters with respect to civilian casualties 
        resulting from United States military operations as the 
        designated senior civilian official considers appropriate.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the senior civilian official designated under 
subsection (a) shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report that describes--
            (1) the policy developed by the senior civilian official 
        under that subsection; and
            (2) the efforts of the Department to implement such policy.

SEC. 933. ADDITIONAL MATTERS IN CONNECTION WITH BACKGROUND AND SECURITY 
              INVESTIGATIONS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL.

    (a) Additional Matter for Annual Reports.--Subsection (k)(3) of 
section 925 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (H) through (L) as 
        subparagraphs (I) through (M), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (G) the following new 
        subparagraph (H):
                    ``(H) The number of denials or revocations of a 
                security clearance by each authorized adjudicative 
                agency that occurred separately from a periodic 
                reinvestigation.''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (l) as subsection (m); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (k) the following new 
        subsection (l):
    ``(l) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            ``(1) personnel security investigations, and continuous 
        evaluation, form an integral part of the security posture of 
        the Department of Defense; and
            ``(2) to the extent practicable, the Department should 
        coordinate with the security executive agent to ensure that the 
        results of adjudication decisions, either within initial 
        investigations or reinvestigations, are communicated in a 
        transparent manner to ensure public trust in the adjudication 
        process.''.

SEC. 934. PROGRAM OF EXPEDITED SECURITY CLEARANCES FOR MISSION-CRITICAL 
              POSITIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent shall establish a 
program for the expedited processing of security clearances for 
mission-critical positions, fulfilled by either Government or contract 
employees. Under such program, the Security Executive Agent shall 
complete the processing of applications for security clearances--
            (1) at the secret level in 15 or fewer days; and
            (2) at the top secret level in 45 days or fewer.
    (b) Security Executive Agent.--In this section, the term ``Security 
Executive Agent'' means the Director of National Intelligence acting as 
the Security Executive Agent in accordance with Executive Order 13467 
(73 Fed. Reg. 38103; 50 U.S.C. 3161 note).

SEC. 935. INFORMATION SHARING PROGRAM FOR POSITIONS OF TRUST.

    (a) Program Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent shall establish a 
program to share between and among Federal Government agencies and 
industry partners of the Federal Government information regarding 
individuals applying for and in positions of trust, including 
derogatory and suitability information.
    (b) Privacy Safeguards.--The Security Executive Agent shall ensure 
that the program required by subsection (a) includes such safeguards 
for privacy as the Security Executive Agent considers appropriate.
    (c) Provision of Information to the Private Sector.--The Security 
Executive Agent shall ensure that under the program required by 
subsection (a) sufficient information is provided to the private sector 
so that employers in the private sector can make informed decisions 
about hiring and retention in positions of trust, while safeguarding 
personnel privacy.
    (d) Implementation Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent shall 
        submit to Congress a plan for the implementation of the program 
        required by subsection (a).
            (2) Contents.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) Matters that address privacy, security, and 
                human resources processes.
                    (B) Such recommendations as the Security Executive 
                Agent may have for legislative or administrative action 
                to carry out or improve the program.
    (e) Security Executive Agent.--In this section, the term ``Security 
Executive Agent'' means the Director of National Intelligence acting as 
the Security Executive Agent in accordance with Executive Order 13467 
(73 Fed. Reg. 38103; 50 U.S.C. 3161 note).

SEC. 936. REPORT ON CLEARANCE IN PERSON CONCEPT.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent shall submit to 
congressional defense and intelligence committees a report on the 
requirements, feasibility, and advisability of implementing a clearance 
in person concept as described in subsection (b) for maintaining access 
to classified information.
    (b) Clearance in Person Concept.--
            (1) In general.--Implementation of a clearance in person 
        concept as described in this subsection would permit an 
        individual who has been granted a national security clearance 
        to maintain eligibility for access to classified information, 
        networks, and facilities after the individual has separated 
        from service to the Federal Government or transferred to a 
        position that no longer requires access to classified 
        information.
            (2) Recognition as current.--The concept described in 
        paragraph (1) would also ensure that, unless otherwise directed 
        by the Security Executive Agent, the individual's security 
        clearance would be recognized as current, regardless of 
        employment status, with no further need for investigation or 
        revalidation until the individual obtains a position requiring 
        access to classified information.
    (c) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall address 
the following:
            (1) Requirements for continuous vetting.
            (2) Appropriate safeguards for privacy.
            (3) An appropriate funding model.
            (4) Fairness to small business concerns and independent 
        contractors.
    (d) Security Executive Agent.--In this section, the term ``Security 
Executive Agent'' means the Director of National Intelligence acting as 
the Security Executive Agent in accordance with Executive Order 13467 
(73 Fed. Reg. 38103; 50 U.S.C. 3161 note).

SEC. 937. STRATEGIC DEFENSE FELLOWS PROGRAM.

    (a) Fellowship Program.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        establish within the Department of Defense a civilian 
        fellowship program designed to provide leadership development 
        and the commencement of a career track toward senior leadership 
        in the Department.
            (2) Designation.--The fellowship program shall be known as 
        the ``Strategic Defense Fellows Program'' (in this section 
        referred to as the ``fellows program'').
    (b) Eligibility.--An individual is eligible for participation in 
the fellows program if the individual--
            (1) is a citizen of the United States or a lawful permanent 
        resident of the United States in the year in which the 
        individual applies for participation in the fellows program; 
        and
            (2) either--
                    (A) possesses a graduate degree from an accredited 
                institution of higher education in the United States 
                that was awarded not later than two years before the 
                date of the acceptance of the individual into the 
                fellows program; or
                    (B) will be awarded a graduate degree from an 
                accredited institution of higher education in the 
                United States not later than six months after the date 
                of the acceptance of the individual into the fellows 
                program.
    (c) Application.--
            (1) Application required.--Each individual seeking to 
        participate in the fellows program shall submit to the 
        Secretary an application therefor at such time and in such 
        manner as the Secretary shall specify.
            (2) Elements.--Each application of an individual under this 
        subsection shall include the following:
                    (A) Transcripts of educational achievement at the 
                undergraduate and graduate level.
                    (B) A resume.
                    (C) Proof of citizenship or lawful permanent 
                residence.
                    (D) An endorsement from the applicant's graduate 
                institution of higher education.
                    (E) An academic writing sample.
                    (F) Letters of recommendation addressing the 
                applicant's character, academic ability, and any 
                extracurricular activities.
                    (G) A personal statement by the applicant 
                explaining career areas of interest and motivations for 
                service in the Department.
                    (H) Such other information as the Secretary 
                considers appropriate.
    (d) Selection.--
            (1) In general.--Each year, the Secretary shall select 
        participants in the fellows program from among applicants for 
        the fellows program for such year who qualify for participation 
        in the fellows program based on character, commitment to public 
        service, academic achievement, extracurricular activities, and 
        such other qualifications for participation in the fellows 
        program as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Number.--The number of individuals selected to 
        participate in the fellows program in any year may not exceed 
        the numbers as follows:
                    (A) Ten individuals from each geographic region of 
                the United States as follows:
                            (i) The Northeast.
                            (ii) The Southeast.
                            (iii) The Midwest.
                            (iv) The Southwest.
                            (v) The West.
                    (B) Ten additional individuals.
            (3) Background investigation.--An individual selected to 
        participate in the fellows program may not participate in the 
        program unless the individual successfully undergoes a 
        background investigation applicable to the position to which 
        the individual will be assigned under the fellows program and 
        otherwise meets such requirements applicable to assignment to a 
        sensitive position within the Department that the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
    (e) Assignment.--
            (1) In general.--Each individual who participates in the 
        fellows program shall be assigned to a position in the Office 
        of the Secretary of Defense.
            (2) Position requirements.--Each Under Secretary of Defense 
        and each Director of a Defense Agency who reports directly to 
        the Secretary shall submit to the Secretary each year the 
        qualifications and skills to be demonstrated by participants in 
        the fellows program to qualify for assignment under this 
        subsection for service in a position of the office of such 
        Under Secretary or Director.
            (3) Assignment to positions.--The Secretary shall each year 
        assign participants in the fellows program to positions in the 
        offices of the Under Secretaries and Directors described in 
        paragraph (2). In making such assignments, the Secretary shall 
        seek to best match the qualifications and skills of 
        participants in the fellows program with the requirements of 
        positions available for assignment. Each participant so 
        assigned shall serve as a special assistant to the Under 
        Secretary or Director to whom assigned.
            (4) Term.--The term of each assignment under the fellows 
        program shall be one year.
            (5) Pay and benefits.--An individual assigned to a position 
        under the fellows program shall be compensated at the rate of 
        compensation for employees at level GS-10 of the General 
        Schedule, and shall be treated as an employee of the United 
        States during the term of assignment, including for purposes of 
        eligibility for health care benefits and retirement benefits 
        available to employees of the United States.
            (6) Education loan repayment.--To the extent that funds are 
        provided in advance in appropriations Acts, the Secretary may 
        repay any loan of a participant in the fellows program if the 
        loan is described by subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 
        16301(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code. Any repayment of 
        loans under this paragraph shall be on a first-come, first-
        served basis.
    (f) Career Development.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
        participants in the fellows program--
                    (A) receive opportunities and support appropriate 
                for the commencement of a career track within the 
                Department leading toward a future position of senior 
                leadership within the Department, including ongoing 
                mentorship support through appropriate personnel from 
                entities within the Department such as the Defense 
                Business Board and the Defense Innovation Board; and
                    (B) are provided appropriate opportunities for 
                employment and advancement within the Department upon 
                successful completion of the fellows program.
            (2) Reservation of positions.--In carrying out paragraph 
        (1)(B), the Secretary shall reserve for participants who 
        successfully complete the fellows program not fewer than 30 
        positions in the excepted service within the Department that 
        are suitable for the commencement of a career track toward 
        senior leadership within the Department. Any position so 
        reserved shall not be subject to or covered by any reduction in 
        headquarters personnel required under any other provision of 
        law.
            (3) Noncompetitive appointment.--Upon the successful 
        completion of the assignment of a participant in the fellows 
        program in a position pursuant to subsection (e), the Secretary 
        may, without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of 
        chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code, appoint the 
        participant to a position reserved pursuant to paragraph (2) if 
        the Secretary determines that such appointment will contribute 
        to the development of highly qualified future senior leaders 
        for the Department.
            (4) Publication of selection.--The Secretary shall publish 
        on an Internet website of the Department available to the 
        public the names of the individuals selected to participate in 
        the fellows program.
    (g) Outreach.--The Secretary shall undertake appropriate outreach 
to inform potential participants in the fellows program of the nature 
and benefits of participation in the fellows program.
    (h) Regulations.--The Secretary shall carry out this section in 
accordance with such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe for 
purposes of this section.
    (i) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for each 
fiscal year for the Department of Defense for operation and 
maintenance, Defense-wide, $10,000,000 may be available to carry out 
the fellows program in such fiscal year.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 941. ANALYSIS OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND 
              OPERATIONS DATASETS TO PROMOTE SAVINGS AND EFFICIENCIES.

    (a) In General.--The Chief Management Officer of the Department of 
Defense shall develop a policy on analysis of Department of Defense 
datasets on business management and business operations by the public 
for purposes of accessing data analysis capabilities that would promote 
savings and efficiencies and otherwise enhance the utility of such 
datasets to the Department.
    (b) Initial Discharge of Policy.--
            (1) In general.--The Chief Management Officer shall 
        commence the discharge of the policy required pursuant to 
        subsection (a) by--
                    (A) identifying one or more matters--
                            (i) that are of significance to the 
                        Department of Defense;
                            (ii) that are currently unresolved; and
                            (iii) whose resolution from a business 
                        management or business operations dataset of 
                        the Department could benefit from a method or 
                        technique of analysis not currently familiar to 
                        the Department;
                    (B) identifying between three and five business 
                management or business operations datasets of the 
                Department not currently available to the public whose 
                evaluation could result in novel data analysis 
                solutions toward management or operations problems of 
                the Department identified by the Chief Management 
                Officer; and
                    (C) encouraging, whether by competition or other 
                mechanisms, the evaluation of the datasets described in 
                subparagraph (B) by appropriate persons and entities in 
                the public or private sector (including academia).
            (2) Protection of security and confidentiality.--In 
        providing for the evaluation of datasets pursuant to this 
        subsection, the Chief Management Officer shall take appropriate 
        actions to protect the security and confidentiality of any 
        information contained in the dataset, including through special 
        precautions to ensure that any personally identifiable 
        information is not included and no release of information will 
        adversely affect national security missions.

SEC. 942. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT TO ADVANCE CAPABILITIES OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE IN DATA INTEGRATION AND ADVANCED 
              ANALYTICS IN CONNECTION WITH PERSONNEL SECURITY.

    (a) Plan Required.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
shall develop a plan on research and development activities to advance 
the capabilities of the Department of Defense in data integration and 
advanced analytics in connection with personnel security activities of 
the Department. The plan shall, to the extent practicable, provide for 
the leveraging of the capabilities of other government entities, 
institutions of higher education, and private sector entities with 
advanced, leading-edge expertise in data integration and analytics 
applicable to the challenges faced by the Department in connection with 
personnel security.
    (b) Coordination.--Any activities under the plan may be carried out 
in coordination with the Defense Digital Service and the Defense 
Innovation Board.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall provide to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a briefing on the plan.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

SEC. 1001. GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authority To Transfer Authorizations.--
            (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
        Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, 
        the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made 
        available to the Department of Defense in this division for 
        fiscal year 2019 between any such authorizations for that 
        fiscal year (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of 
        authorizations so transferred shall be merged with and be 
        available for the same purposes as the authorization to which 
        transferred.
            (2) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
        total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer 
        under the authority of this section may not exceed 
        $4,500,000,000.
            (3) Exception for transfers between military personnel 
        authorizations.--A transfer of funds between military personnel 
        authorizations under title IV shall not be counted toward the 
        dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
    (b) Limitations.--The authority provided by subsection (a) to 
transfer authorizations--
            (1) may only be used to provide authority for items that 
        have a higher priority than the items from which authority is 
        transferred; and
            (2) may not be used to provide authority for an item that 
        has been denied authorization by Congress.
    (c) Effect on Authorization Amounts.--A transfer made from one 
account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed 
to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount 
is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
    (d) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary shall promptly notify 
Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).

SEC. 1002. INCLUSION OF FUNDS FOR AIR FORCE PASS-THROUGH ITEMS IN 
              DEFENSE-WIDE BUDGET FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--In any budget of the President submitted to 
Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, 
for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2019, any funds for an Air Force 
pass-through item shall be requested in the Defense-wide budget of the 
Department of Defense rather than the budget of the Air Force.
    (b) Air Force Pass-through Item Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Air Force pass-through item'' means a program, project, or activity 
for which--
            (1) funds would otherwise be requested for the Air Force; 
        and
            (2) funds made available for execution will be executed by 
        another department, agency, or element of the Department of 
        Defense.

SEC. 1003. REPORT ON SHIFT IN REQUESTS FOR FUNDS FOR DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE ACTIVITIES FROM FUNDS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY 
              OPERATIONS TO FUNDS THROUGH THE BASE BUDGET.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 14 days after the submittal to 
Congress of the budget of the President for fiscal year 2020 pursuant 
to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the Under Secretary of 
Defense (Comptroller) shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on any shift during fiscal year 2020 from requests 
for funds for Department of Defense activities for overseas contingency 
operations to requests for funds for such activities for the Department 
generally (commonly referred to as the ``base budget'').
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the assumptions used by the Department 
        of Defense and the Armed Forces in determining the programs, 
        projects, and activities for which funds were requested for 
        fiscal year 2019 for overseas contingency operations for which 
        funds are requested for fiscal year 2020 for the Department 
        generally, including any changes to the criteria for overseas 
        contingency operations funding requests issued in 2010 and used 
        by the Office of Management and Budget in identifying the 
        programs, projects, and activities for which funds are so 
        requested for fiscal year 2020.
            (2) The programs, projects, and activities of the 
        Department for which funds were requested for fiscal year 2019 
        for overseas contingency operations that are requested in the 
        budget for fiscal year 2020 to be funded for the Department 
        generally, and the amount for such programs, projects, and 
        activities, set forth at the level of detail as follows:
                    (A) For procurement, by line item.
                    (B) For research, development, test, and 
                evaluation, by program element (PE) number.
                    (C) For operation and maintenance, by sub-activity 
                group (SAG).
                    (D) For military personnel, by sub-activity group.
                    (E) For revolving and management funds, by sub-
                activity group.
                    (F) For military construction, by project.

SEC. 1004. RANKING OF AUDITABILITY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE 
              ORGANIZATIONS AND ELEMENTS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Report on Ranking.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), submit 
to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth a 
ranking of the auditability of the financial statements of the 
departments, agencies, organizations, and elements of the Department of 
Defense according to the progress made toward achieving auditability as 
required by law.
    (b) Criteria for Ranking.--The criteria to be used for ranking for 
purposes of the report under this section shall be--
            (1) the criteria developed by the Under Secretary pursuant 
        to section 1104 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) for a similar report under 
        that section;
            (2) other criteria developed by the Under Secretary for 
        purposes of the report under this section; or
            (3) a combination of the criteria described in paragraphs 
        (1) and (2).
    (c) Construction.--The report required by this section is in 
addition to the report required by section 1104 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018.

SEC. 1005. TRANSPARENCY OF ACCOUNTING FIRMS USED TO SUPPORT DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE AUDIT.

    The Secretary of Defense shall require any accounting firm under 
contract or under consideration for a contract or for the renewal of an 
existing contract with the Department of Defense in support of the 
audit required under section 3521 of title 31, United States Code, to 
provide a statement setting forth the details of any disciplinary 
proceedings with respect to the accounting firm or its associated 
persons before any entity with the authority to enforce compliance with 
rules or laws applying to audit services offered by accounting firms.

                Subtitle B--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

SEC. 1011. DATE OF LISTING OF VESSELS AS BATTLE FORCE SHIPS IN THE 
              NAVAL VESSEL REGISTER AND OTHER FLEET INVENTORY MEASURES.

    (a) In General.--Section 7301 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) Listing as Battle Force Ship in Naval Vessel Register.--A 
covered vessel may not be listed in the Naval Vessel Register or other 
fleet inventory measures as a battle force ship until the delivery date 
specified in subsection (a).''.
    (b) Definitions.--Such section is further amended by striking 
subsection (d), as redesignated by subsection (a)(1) of this section, 
and inserting the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `covered vessel' means any vessel of the 
        Navy that is under construction or constructed using amounts 
        authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for 
        shipbuilding and conversion, Navy.
            ``(2) The term `battle force ship' means the following:
                    ``(A) A commissioned United States Ship warship 
                capable of contributing to combat operations.
                    ``(B) A United States Naval Ship that contributes 
                directly to Navy warfighting or support missions.''.

SEC. 1012. ANNUAL REPORTS ON EXAMINATION OF NAVY VESSELS.

    Section 7304 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Annual Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than March 1 each year, the 
        board designated under subsection (a) shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report setting forth the 
        following:
                    ``(A) An overall narrative summary of the material 
                readiness of Navy ships as compared to established 
                material requirements standards.
                    ``(B) The overall number and types of vessels 
                inspected during the preceding fiscal year.
                    ``(C) For in-service vessels, material readiness 
                trends by inspected functional area as compared to the 
                previous five years.
            ``(2) Form.--Each report under this subsection shall be 
        submitted in an unclassified form that is releasable to the 
        public without further redaction.
            ``(3) Termination.--No report shall be required under this 
        subsection after October 1, 2021.''.

SEC. 1013. LIMITATION ON DURATION OF HOMEPORTING OF CERTAIN VESSELS IN 
              FOREIGN LOCATIONS.

    (a) Limitation.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 633 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by inserting after section 7310 the following 
        new section:
``Sec. 7310a. Homeporting of certain vessels in overseas locations: 
              limitation on duration
    ``(a) In General.--A vessel specified in subsection (b) that is 
listed in the Naval Vessel Register may not be homeported in a location 
other than in the United States or Guam for a period of more than 10 
consecutive years.
    ``(b) Specified Vessels.--The vessels specified in this subsection 
are the following:
            ``(1) Aircraft carrier.
            ``(2) Amphibious ship.
            ``(3) Cruiser.
            ``(4) Destroyer.
            ``(5) Frigate.
    ``(c) Waiver.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Chief of Naval Operations may waive 
        the applicability of subsection (a) to a ship.
            ``(2) Effectiveness contingent on report.--A waiver under 
        paragraph (1) with respect to a ship shall go into effect on 
        the date on which the Chief of Naval Operations submits to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the waiver setting 
        forth the following:
                    ``(A) The ship covered by the waiver.
                    ``(B) The duration of the waiver for such ship
                    ``(C) The justification of the Chief of Naval 
                Operations for the waiver.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 633 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 7310 the following new item:

``7310a. Homeporting of certain vessels in overseas locations: 
                            limitation on duration.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2020, and shall apply with respect to the 
homeporting of vessels after that date, regardless of whether the 
continuous period of homeporting concerned commenced before that date.

SEC. 1014. SPECIFIC AUTHORIZATION REQUIREMENT FOR NUCLEAR REFUELING OF 
              AIRCRAFT CARRIERS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 633 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 7314 the following new section:
``Sec. 7314a. Nuclear refueling of aircraft carriers: specific 
              authorization required
    ``Funds may not be obligated or expended for the procurement of a 
naval nuclear reactor power unit or associated reactor components for 
the nuclear refueling of an aircraft carrier unless such refueling is 
specifically authorized, by ship name and hull number, by statute.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 633 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 7314 the following new item:

``7314a. Nuclear refueling of aircraft carriers: specific authorization 
                            required.''.

SEC. 1015. DISMANTLEMENT AND DISPOSAL OF NUCLEAR-POWERED AIRCRAFT 
              CARRIERS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 633 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7320. Nuclear-powered aircraft carriers: dismantlement and 
              disposal
    ``(a) In General.--Not less than 90 days before the award of a 
contract for the dismantlement and disposal of a nuclear-powered 
aircraft carrier, or the provision of funds to a naval shipyard for the 
dismantlement and disposal of a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, the 
Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report setting forth the following:
            ``(1) A cost and schedule baseline for the dismantlement 
        and disposal approved by the service acquisition executive of 
        the Department of the Navy and the Chief of Naval Operations.
            ``(2) An independent cost estimate of the dismantlement and 
        disposal prepared by the Office of Cost Analysis and Program 
        Evaluation.
            ``(3) A description of the regulatory framework applicable 
        to the management of radioactive materials in connection with 
        the dismantlement and disposal, including, in cases in which 
        the Navy intends to have another government entity serve as the 
        regulatory enforcement authority--
                    ``(A) a certification from that entity of its 
                agreement to serve as the regulatory enforcement 
                authority; and
                    ``(B) a description of the legal basis for the 
                authority of that entity to serve as the regulatory 
                enforcement authority.
    ``(b) Supplemental Information With Budgets.--In the materials 
submitted to Congress by the Secretary of Defense in support of the 
budget of the President for a fiscal year (as submitted to Congress 
under section 1105(a) of title 31), the Secretary of the Navy shall 
include information on each dismantlement and disposal of a nuclear-
powered aircraft carrier occurring or planned to occur during the 
period of the future-years defense program submitted to Congress with 
that budget. Such information shall include, by ship concerned, the 
following:
            ``(1) A summary of activities and significant developments 
        in connection with such dismantlement and disposal.
            ``(2) If applicable, a detailed description of cost and 
        schedule performance against the baseline for such 
        dismantlement and disposal established pursuant to subsection 
        (a), including a description of and explanation for any 
        variance from such baseline.
            ``(3) A description of the amounts requested, or intended 
        or estimated to be requested, for such dismantlement and 
        disposal for each of the following:
                    ``(A) Each fiscal year covered by the future-years 
                defense program.
                    ``(B) Any fiscal years before the fiscal years 
                covered by the future-years defense program.
                    ``(C) Any fiscal years after the end of the period 
                of the future-years defense program.
    ``(c) Future-years Defense Program Defined.--In this section, the 
term `future-years defense program' means the future-years defense 
program required by section 221 of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 633 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``7320. Nuclear-powered aircraft carriers; dismantlement and 
                            disposal.''.

SEC. 1016. NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND.

    Section 2218(f)(3)(C) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``two foreign constructed ships'' and inserting ``seven 
foreign constructed ships during the period beginning with fiscal year 
2019 and ending with fiscal year 2030''.

SEC. 1017. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF HOSPITAL SHIPS.

    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2019 for the Navy may be obligated or 
expended to retire, prepare to retire, transfer, or place in storage 
any hospital ship.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of the Navy may waive the limitation in 
subsection (a) with respect to a hospital ship if the Secretary 
certifies to the congressional defense committees that the Secretary 
has--
            (1) identified a replacement capability, and the necessary 
        quantity of systems, to meet all hospital ship requirements of 
        the combatant commands that are currently being met by such 
        hospital ship;
            (2) achieved initial operational capability of all systems 
        described in paragraph (1); and
            (3) deployed a sufficient quantity of systems described in 
        paragraph (1) that have achieved initial operational capability 
        in order to continue to meet or exceed all requirements of the 
        combatant commands that are currently being met by such 
        hospital ship.

                      Subtitle C--Counterterrorism

SEC. 1021. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
              RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL 
              STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO THE UNITED STATES.

    Section 1033 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.

SEC. 1022. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CONSTRUCT OR 
              MODIFY FACILITIES IN THE UNITED STATES TO HOUSE DETAINEES 
              TRANSFERRED FROM UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO 
              BAY, CUBA.

    Section 1034(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended by striking ``December 
31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.

SEC. 1023. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
              RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL 
              STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO CERTAIN COUNTRIES.

    Section 1035 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.

SEC. 1024. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CLOSE OR 
              RELINQUISH CONTROL OF UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, 
              GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.

    Section 1036 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended inserting ``or 2019'' after 
``fiscal year 2018''.

SEC. 1025. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES 
              NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO THE UNITED STATES 
              TEMPORARILY FOR EMERGENCY OR CRITICAL MEDICAL TREATMENT.

    (a) Temporary Transfer for Medical Treatment.--Notwithstanding 
section 1033 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018 (Public Law 115-91), as amended by section 1021 of this Act, or 
any similar provision of law enacted after September 30, 2015, the 
Secretary of Defense may, after consultation with the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, temporarily transfer an individual detained at 
Guantanamo to a Department of Defense medical facility in the United 
States for the sole purpose of providing the individual medical 
treatment if the Secretary of Defense determines that--
            (1) the medical treatment of the individual is necessary to 
        prevent death or imminent significant injury or harm to the 
        health of the individual;
            (2) the necessary medical treatment is not available to be 
        provided at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
        without incurring excessive and unreasonable costs; and
            (3) the Department of Defense has provided for appropriate 
        security measures for the custody and control of the individual 
        during any period in which the individual is temporarily in the 
        United States under this section.
    (b) Limitation on Exercise of Authority.--The authority of the 
Secretary of Defense under subsection (a) may be exercised only by the 
Secretary of Defense or another official of the Department of Defense 
at the level of Under Secretary of Defense or higher.
    (c) Conditions of Transfer.--An individual who is temporarily 
transferred under the authority in subsection (a) shall--
            (1) while in the United States, remain in the custody and 
        control of the Secretary of Defense at all times; and
            (2) be returned to United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
        Bay, Cuba, as soon as feasible after a Department of Defense 
        physician determines, in consultation with the Commander, Joint 
        Task Force-Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, that any necessary follow-up 
        medical care may reasonably be provided the individual at 
        United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay.
    (d) Status While in United States.--An individual who is 
temporarily transferred under the authority in subsection (a), while in 
the United States--
            (1) shall be deemed at all times and in all respects to be 
        in the uninterrupted custody of the Secretary of Defense, as 
        though the individual remained physically at United States 
        Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba;
            (2) shall not at any time be subject to, and may not apply 
        for or obtain, or be deemed to enjoy, any right, privilege, 
        status, benefit, or eligibility for any benefit under any 
        provision of the immigration laws (as defined in section 
        101(a)(17) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
        1101(a)(17)), or any other law or regulation;
            (3) shall not be permitted to avail himself of any right, 
        privilege, or benefit of any law of the United States beyond 
        those available to individuals detained at United States Naval 
        Station, Guantanamo Bay; and
            (4) shall not, as a result of such transfer, have a change 
        in any designation that may have attached to that detainee 
        while detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
        pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public 
        Law 107-40), as determined in accordance with applicable law 
        and regulations.
    (e) No Cause of Action.--Any decision to transfer or not to 
transfer an individual made under the authority in subsection (a) shall 
not give rise to any claim or cause of action.
    (f) Limitation on Judicial Review.--
            (1) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), no 
        court, justice, or judge shall have jurisdiction to hear or 
        consider any claim or action against the United States or its 
        departments, agencies, officers, employees, or agents arising 
        from or relating to any aspect of the detention, transfer, 
        treatment, or conditions of confinement of an individual 
        transferred under this section.
            (2) Exception for habeas corpus.--The United States 
        District Court for the District of Columbia shall have 
        exclusive jurisdiction to consider an application for writ of 
        habeas corpus seeking release from custody filed by or on 
        behalf of an individual who is in the United States pursuant to 
        a temporary transfer under the authority in subsection (a). 
        Such jurisdiction shall be limited to that required by the 
        Constitution, and relief shall be only as provided in paragraph 
        (3). In such a proceeding the court may not review, halt, or 
        stay the return of the individual who is the object of the 
        application to United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
        Cuba, pursuant to subsection (c).
            (3) Relief.--A court order in a proceeding covered by 
        paragraph (2)--
                    (A) may not order the release of the individual 
                within the United States; and
                    (B) shall be limited to an order of release from 
                custody which, when final, the Secretary of Defense 
                shall implement in accordance with section 1034 of the 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
                (10 U.S.C. 801 note).
    (g) Notification.--Whenever a temporary transfer of an individual 
detained at Guantanamo is made under the authority of subsection (a), 
the Secretary of Defense shall notify the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives of the transfer not 
later than five days after the date on which the transfer is made.
    (h) Individual Detained at Guantanamo Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``individual detained at Guantanamo'' means an individual 
located at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as of 
October 1, 2009, who--
            (1) is not a national of the United States (as defined in 
        section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
        U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)) or a member of the Armed Forces of the 
        United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the control of the 
                Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise detained at United States Naval 
                Station, Guantanamo Bay.
    (i) Applicability.--This section shall apply to an individual 
temporarily transferred under the authority in subsection (a) 
regardless of the status of any pending or completed proceeding or 
detention on the date of the enactment of this Act.

         Subtitle D--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

SEC. 1031. STRATEGIC GUIDANCE DOCUMENTS WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE.

    Section 113(g) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking paragraphs (2) through (4) and inserting the following new 
paragraphs (2) through (4):
    ``(2)(A) In implementing the requirement in paragraph (1), the 
Secretary, with the advice of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, shall each year provide to the officials and officers referred 
in paragraph (1)(A), and submit to the congressional defense 
committees, written guidance (to be known as `Defense Planning 
Guidance') establishing goals, priorities, and objectives, including 
fiscal constraints, to direct the preparation and review of the program 
and budget recommendations of all elements of the Department, 
including--
            ``(i) the priority military missions of the Department, 
        including the assumed force planning scenarios and constructs;
            ``(ii) the force size and shape, force posture, defense 
        capabilities, force readiness, infrastructure, organization, 
        personnel, technological innovation, and other elements of the 
        defense program necessary to support the strategy required by 
        paragraph (1);
            ``(iii) the resource levels projected to be available for 
        the period of time for which such recommendations and proposals 
        are to be effective; and
            ``(iv) a discussion of any changes in the strategy required 
        by paragraph (1) and assumptions underpinning the strategy, as 
        required by paragraph (1).
    ``(B) The guidance required by this paragraph shall be produced in 
February each year in order to support the planning and budget process. 
The guidance shall be submitted to the congressional defense committees 
together with the budget of the President (as submitted to Congress 
pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31) for the fiscal year beginning 
in the year in which such guidance is submitted.
    ``(3)(A) In implementing the requirement in paragraph (1) and in 
conjunction with the reporting requirement in section 2687a of this 
title, the Secretary, with the approval of the President and the advice 
of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall, on the basis 
provided in subparagraph (E), provide to the officials and officers 
referred to in paragraph (1)(A), and submit to the congressional 
defense committees, written guidance (to be known as `Contingency 
Planning Guidance' or `Guidance for Employment of the Force') on the 
preparation and review of contingency and campaign plans, including 
plans for providing support to civil authorities in an incident of 
national significance or a catastrophic incident, for homeland defense, 
and for military support to civil authorities.
    ``(B) The guidance required by this paragraph shall include the 
following:
            ``(i) A description of the manner in which limited existing 
        forces and resources shall be prioritized and apportioned to 
        achieve the objectives described in the strategy required by 
        paragraph (1).
            ``(ii) A description of the relative priority of 
        contingency and campaign plans, specific force levels, and 
        supporting resource levels projected to be available for the 
        period of time for which such plans are to be effective.
    ``(C) The guidance required by this paragraph shall include the 
following:
            ``(i) Prioritized global, regional, and functional policy 
        objectives that the armed forces should plan to achieve, 
        including plans for deliberate and contingency scenarios.
            ``(ii) Policy and strategic assumptions that should guide 
        military planning, including the role of foreign partners.
            ``(iii) Guidance on global posture and global force 
        management.
            ``(iv) Security cooperation priorities.
            ``(v) Specific guidance on United States and Department 
        nuclear policy.
    ``(D) The guidance required by this paragraph shall be the primary 
source document to be used by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
in--
            ``(i) executing the global military integration 
        responsibilities described in section 153 of this title; and
            ``(ii) developing implementation guidance for the Joint 
        Chiefs of Staff and the commanders of the combatant commands.
    ``(E) The guidance required by this paragraph shall be produced 
every two years, or more frequently as needed.
    ``(F) The guidance required by this paragraph shall be submitted to 
the congressional defense committees as required by subparagraph (A) in 
February of each year in which produced, and shall be accompanied by 
any written implementation documentation produced by the Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff for purposes of such guidance.
    ``(4)(A) In implementing the requirement in paragraph (1), the 
Secretary, with the advice of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, shall each year produce, and submit to the congressional defense 
committee, a report (to be known as the `Global Defense Posture 
Report') that shall include the following:
            ``(i) A description of major changes to United States 
        forces, capabilities, and equipment assigned and allocated 
        outside the United States, focused on significant alterations, 
        additions, or reductions to such global defense posture that 
        are required to execute the strategy and plans of the 
        Department.
            ``(ii) A description of the supporting network of 
        infrastructure, facilities, pre-positioned stocks, and war 
        reserve materiel required for execution of major contingency 
        plans of the Department.
            ``(iii) A list of all enduring locations, including main 
        operating bases, forward operating sites, and cooperative 
        security locations.
            ``(iv) A description of the status of treaty, access, cost-
        sharing, and status-protection agreements with foreign nations.
            ``(v) A summary of the priority posture initiatives for 
        each region by the commanders of the combatant commands.
            ``(vi) For each military department, a summary of the 
        implications for overseas posture of any force structure 
        changes.
            ``(vii) A description of the costs incurred outside the 
        United States during the preceding fiscal year in connection 
        with operating, maintaining, and supporting United States 
        forces outside the United States for each military department, 
        broken out by country, and whether for operation and 
        maintenance, infrastructure, or transportation.
            ``(viii) A description of the amount of direct support for 
        the stationing of United States forces provided by each host 
        nation during the preceding fiscal year.
    ``(B) The report required by this paragraph shall be submitted to 
the congressional defense committees as required by subparagraph (A) by 
not later than April 30 each year.
    ``(C) In this paragraph, the term `United States', when used in a 
geographic sense, includes the territories and possessions of the 
United States''.

SEC. 1032. GUIDANCE ON THE ELECTRONIC WARFARE MISSION AREA AND JOINT 
              ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM OPERATIONS.

    (a) Processes and Procedures for Integration.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall--
            (1) establish processes and procedures to develop, 
        integrate, and enhance the electronic warfare mission area and 
        the conduct of joint electromagnetic spectrum operations in all 
        domains across the Department of Defense; and
            (2) ensure that such processes and procedures provide for 
        integrated defense-wide strategy, planning, and budgeting with 
        respect to the conduct of such operations by the Department, 
        including activities conducted to counter and deter such 
        operations by malign actors.
    (b) Designated Senior Official.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall designate a senior 
        official of the Department of Defense (in this section referred 
        to as the ``designated senior official'') who shall implement 
        and oversee the processes and procedures established under 
        subsection (a). The designated senior official shall be 
        designated by the Secretary from among individuals serving in 
        the Department at or below the level of Under Secretary of 
        Defense. The designated senior official shall oversee and chair 
        the cross-functional team established pursuant to subsection 
        (c) and the Electronic Warfare Executive Committee established 
        in March 2015.
            (2) Responsibilities.--The designated senior official shall 
        have, with respect to the implementation and oversight of the 
        processes and procedures established under subsection (a), the 
        following responsibilities:
                    (A) Development of a strategic framework for the 
                conduct and execution of the electronic warfare mission 
                area and joint electromagnetic spectrum operations by 
                the Department, coordinated across all relevant 
                elements of the Department, including both near-term 
                and long-term guidance for the conduct of such 
                operations.
                    (B) Oversight of resource management for the 
                development and integration of electronic warfare 
                capabilities of the Department.
            (3) Annual certification on budgeting for certain 
        capabilities.--Each budget for fiscal years 2020 through 2024 
        submitted by the President to Congress pursuant to section 
        1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, shall include a 
        certification by the senior designated official, as chair of 
        the Electronic Warfare Executive Committee, whether sufficient 
        funds are requested in such budget for anticipated activities 
        in such fiscal year for each of the following:
                    (A) The development of an Electromagnetic Battle 
                Management capability for joint electromagnetic 
                spectrum operations.
                    (B) The establishment and operation of associated 
                Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations cells.
    (c) Cross-functional Team for Electronic Warfare.--
            (1) Establishment required.--The Secretary shall, in 
        accordance with section 911(c) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 
        Stat. 2345; 10 U.S.C. 111 note), establish a cross-functional 
        team for electronic warfare in order to identify gaps in 
        electronic warfare capabilities and capacities within the 
        Department across personnel, procedural, and equipment areas.
            (2) Specific duties.--The cross-functional team established 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) shall provide recommendations to 
        address gaps identified as described in that paragraph to the 
        senior designated official.
    (d) Plans and Requirements for Electronic Warfare.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall require the designated 
        senior official to task the cross-functional team established 
        pursuant to subsection (c) to develop requirements and specific 
        plans for addressing personnel and capability gaps in the 
        electronic warfare mission area, and plans for future warfare 
        in that domain (including a roadmap for the next five years).
            (2) Update of strategy.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the cross-functional team 
        shall--
                    (A) update the strategy of the Department of 
                Defense titled ``The DOD Electronic Warfare Strategy'' 
                and dated June 2017 to include the roadmap referred to 
                in paragraph (1); and
                    (B) submit the updated strategy to the designated 
                senior official for transmittal to the congressional 
                defense committees.
            (3) Elements.--The requirements and plans developed by the 
        cross-functional team pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include 
        the following:
                    (A) An accounting of the efforts undertaken in 
                support of the strategy referred to in paragraph (2)(A) 
                since its issuance in June 2017.
                    (B) A description of any updates or changes to the 
                strategy since its issuance, and a description of any 
                anticipated updates or changes to the strategy as a 
                result of the designation of the designated senior 
                official.
                    (C) An assessment of vulnerabilities identified in 
                the May 2015 Electronic Warfare assessment by the 
                Defense Science Board.
                    (D) An assessment of the capability of joint forces 
                to conduct joint electromagnetic spectrum operations 
                against near-peer adversaries and any capability or 
                capacity gaps in such capability that need to be 
                addressed, including an assessment of the ability of 
                joint forces to conduct coordinated military operations 
                to exploit, attack, protect, and manage the 
                electromagnetic environment in the Signals 
                Intelligence, Electronic Warfare, and Spectrum 
                Management mission areas.
                    (E) A review of the roles of offices within the 
                Joint Staff, the Office of the Secretary of Defense, 
                and the combatant commands with primary responsibility 
                for joint electromagnetic spectrum policy and 
                operations.
                    (F) A description of any assumptions about the 
                roles and contributions of the Department, in 
                coordination with other departments and agencies of the 
                United States Government, with respect to the strategy.
                    (G) A description of actions, performance metrics, 
                and projected timelines for achieving key capabilities 
                for electronic warfare and joint electromagnetic 
                spectrum operations to correspond to the four thematic 
                goals identified in the strategy and as addressed by 
                the roadmap.
                    (H) An analysis of any personnel, resourcing, 
                capability, authority, or other gaps to be addressed in 
                order to ensure effective implementation of the 
                strategy across all relevant elements of the 
                Department, including an update on each of the 
                following:
                            (i) The development of an Electromagnetic 
                        Battle Management capability for joint 
                        electromagnetic spectrum operations.
                            (ii) The establishment and operation of 
                        Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations cells 
                        at critical combatant command locations.
                    (I) An investment framework and projected timeline 
                for addressing any gaps described by subparagraph (H).
                    (J) In consultation with the Director of the 
                Defense Intelligence Agency--
                            (i) a comprehensive assessment of the 
                        electronic warfare capabilities of the Russian 
                        Federation and People's Republic of China;
                            (ii) a review of vulnerabilities with 
                        respect to electronic systems, such as the 
                        Global Positioning System, and in Department-
                        wide abilities to conduct countermeasures in 
                        response to electronic warfare attacks; and
                            (iii) a holistic study of all aspects of 
                        the manner in which the Russian Federation and 
                        the People's Republic of China develop 
                        electronic warfare doctrine, with order of 
                        battle across multiple domains, and long-term 
                        research trends of each country in connection 
                        with such warfare.
                    (K) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (4) Periodic status reports.--Not later than 90 days after 
        the requirements and plans required by paragraph (1) are 
        submitted in accordance with paragraph (2), and every 90 days 
        thereafter during the three-year period beginning on the date 
        such plans and requirements are first submitted in accordance 
        with paragraph (2), the designated senior official shall submit 
        to the congressional defense committees a report describing the 
        status of the efforts of the Department in accomplishing the 
        tasks specified in subparagraphs (B) and (G) of paragraph (3).
    (e) Training and Education.--Consistent with the elements under 
subsection (d)(3) of the plans and requirements required by subsection 
(d)(1), the cross-functional team established pursuant to subsection 
(c) shall provide the senior designated official recommendations for 
programs to provide training and education to such members of the Armed 
Forces and civilian employees of the Department as the Secretary 
considers appropriate in order to ensure that such members and 
employees understand the roles and vulnerabilities associated with 
electronic warfare and dependence on the electromagnetic spectrum.

SEC. 1033. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR UNITED STATES SPECIAL 
              OPERATIONS COMMAND GLOBAL MESSAGING AND COUNTER-MESSAGING 
              PLATFORM.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be 
used for United States Special Operations Command's Global Messaging 
and Counter-Messaging platform until the Secretary of Defense submits 
to the congressional defense committees a report containing the 
following elements:
            (1) A review of the doctrine, organization, training, 
        materiel, leadership and education, personnel and facilities 
        applicable to military information support personnel, 
        including, at a minimum--
                    (A) an assessment of current doctrine, 
                organization, training, materiel, leadership and 
                education, personnel and facilities; and
                    (B) recommended changes for enhancing the ability 
                of military information support personnel to operate 
                effectively in the current and future information 
                environment.
            (2) An implementation plan for the establishment of the 
        platform, including a timeline for achieving initial and full 
        operational capability.
            (3) A description of the budget requirements for the 
        platform to reach full operational capability, including an 
        identification and cost of any infrastructure and equipment 
        requirements.
            (4) A summary of costs to operate and sustain the platform 
        across the future year's defense plan.
            (5) An explanation of the Secretary's guidance to the 
        combatant commands to ensure unity of effort and prevent the 
        proliferation of messaging and counter-messaging platforms.
            (6) A detailed description of the processes for 
        deconfliction and, where possible, integration of platform 
        planning and activities with those of relevant departments and 
        agencies of the United States Government, including the 
        Department of State's Global Engagement Center.
            (7) An identification of any additional authorities that 
        may be required for achieving full operational capability of 
        the platform.
            (8) Any other matters deemed relevant by the Secretary.

SEC. 1034. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE BASING OF KC-46A AIRCRAFT OUTSIDE 
              THE CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that the Department of Defense is 
continuing its process of permanently stationing KC-46A aircraft at 
installations in the continental United States (CONUS) and forward-
basing outside the continental United States (OCONUS).
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Secretary of the Air Force, as part of the strategic basing process for 
KC-46A aircraft, should continue to place emphasis on and consider the 
benefits derived from locations outside the continental United States 
that--
            (1) support day-to-day air refueling operations, operations 
        plans of the combatant commands, and flexibility for 
        contingency operations, and have--
                    (A) a strategic location that is essential to the 
                defense of the United States and its interests;
                    (B) receivers for boom or probe-and-drogue training 
                opportunities with joint and international partners; 
                and
                    (C) sufficient airfield and airspace availability 
                and capacity to meet requirements; and
            (2) possess facilities that--
                    (A) take full advantage of existing infrastructure 
                to provide--
                            (i) runway, hangars, and aircrew and 
                        maintenance operations; and
                            (ii) sufficient fuels receipt, storage, and 
                        distribution capacities for a 5-day peacetime 
                        operating stock; and
                    (B) minimize overall construction and operational 
                costs.

SEC. 1035. RELINQUISHMENT OF LEGISLATIVE JURISDICTION OF CRIMINAL 
              OFFENSES COMMITTED BY JUVENILES ON MILITARY 
              INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) In General.--In the case of any military installation or 
portion of a military installation of which exclusive legislative 
jurisdiction of criminal offenses committed by juveniles is retained by 
the United States as of the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary concerned shall seek to relinquish to the State, 
Commonwealth, territory, or possession concerned legislative 
jurisdiction of such offenses such that the United States and the 
State, Commonwealth, territory, or possession, as the case may be, have 
concurrent legislative jurisdiction of such offenses.
    (b) Manner of Relinquishment.--Legislative jurisdiction shall be 
relinquished pursuant to subsection (a) in the manner provided in 
section 2683(a) of title 10, United States Code.
    (c) Deadline.--The Secretaries concerned shall, to the extent 
practicable, complete relinquishment of legislative jurisdiction 
pursuant to subsection (a) by not later than one year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 15 months after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, each Secretary concerned shall 
        submit to Congress a report on the relinquishment of 
        legislative jurisdiction pursuant to subsection (a).
            (2) Elements.--The report of a Secretary under this 
        subsection shall include the following:
                    (A) A list of the installations or portions of 
                installations under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
                of which exclusive legislative jurisdiction of criminal 
                offenses committed by juveniles is retained by the 
                United States as of the date of the enactment of this 
                Act.
                    (B) A list of the installations or portions of 
                installations listed pursuant to subparagraph (A) for 
                which legislative jurisdiction was relinquished 
                pursuant to subsection (a) as of the date that is one 
                year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                    (C) A list of the installations or portions of 
                installations listed pursuant to subparagraph (A) for 
                which legislative jurisdiction was not relinquished 
                pursuant to subsection (a) as of the date that is one 
                year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and, 
                for each such installation or portion of installation, 
                the reasons why such legislative jurisdiction was not 
                so relinquished.
    (e) Secretary Concerned Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given that term in section 
101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 1036. POLICY ON RESPONSE TO JUVENILE-ON-JUVENILE ABUSE COMMITTED 
              ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a policy, 
applicable across the military installations of the Department of 
Defense (including installations outside the United States), on the 
response of the Department to allegations of juvenile-on-juvenile abuse 
on military installations. The policy shall be designed to ensure a 
consistent, standardized response to such allegations across the 
Department.
    (b) Elements.--The policy required by this section shall provide 
for the following:
            (1) Any report or other allegation of juvenile-on-juvenile 
        abuse on a military installation that is received by the 
        installation commander, a law enforcement organization, a 
        Family Advocacy Program, a chid development center, or a 
        Department school operating on the installation or otherwise 
        under Department administration for the installation shall be 
        reviewed by the Family Advocacy Program of the installation.
            (2) Personnel of Family Advocacy Programs conducting 
        reviews shall have appropriate training and experience in 
        working with juveniles.
            (3) Family Advocacy Programs conducting reviews shall 
        conduct a multi-faceted, multi-disciplinary review and 
        recommend treatment, counseling, or other appropriate 
        interventions for complainants and respondents.
            (4) Each review shall be conducted--
                    (A) with full involvement of appropriate 
                authorities and entities, including parents or legal 
                guardians of the juveniles involved (if practicable); 
                and
                    (B) to the extent practicable, in a manner that 
                protects the sensitive nature of the incident 
                concerned, using language appropriate to the treatment 
                of juveniles in written policies and communication with 
                families.
            (5) The requirement for investigation of a report or other 
        allegation shall not be deemed to terminate or alter any 
        otherwise applicable requirement to report or forward the 
        report or allegation to appropriate Federal, State, or local 
        authorities as possible criminal activity.
            (6) There shall be established and maintained a centralized 
        database of information on each incident of abuse that is 
        reviewed by a Family Advocacy Program under this section, 
        with--
                    (A) the information in such database kept strictly 
                confidential; and
                    (B) because the information involves alleged 
                conduct by juveniles, additional special precautions 
                taken to ensure the information is available only to 
                persons who require access to the information.
            (7) There shall be entered into the database, for each 
        substantiated or unsubstantiated incident of abuse, appropriate 
        information on the incident, including--
                    (A) a description of the allegation;
                    (B) whether or not the review is completed;
                    (C) whether or not the incident was subject to an 
                investigation by a law enforcement organization or 
                entity, and the status and results of such 
                investigation; and
                    (D) whether or not action was taken in response to 
                the incident, and the nature of the action, if any, so 
                taken.

                    Subtitle E--Studies and Reports

SEC. 1041. REPORT ON HIGHEST-PRIORITY ROLES AND MISSIONS OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the National Defense Strategy correctly characterizes 
        the leading strategic challenges facing the United States as 
        the reemergence of great power competition, the erosion of the 
        United States military technological advantage, enduring 
        violent extremism and instability in the broader Middle East 
        and Africa, and continued uncertainty in the United States 
        about the availability of sufficient resources for national 
        defense;
            (2) the National Defense Strategy correctly prioritizes the 
        development of a more lethal joint force that is ready to deter 
        and, if necessary, defeat aggression by great power competitors 
        with advanced military capabilities, while conducting 
        counterterrorism operations in a more sustainable manner, 
        together with allies and partners;
            (3) the National Defense Strategy, and the implications of 
        the Strategy for the size, structure, shape, roles, missions, 
        and employment of the joint force, was not completed in time to 
        inform fully the budget of the President for national defense 
        for fiscal year 2019;
            (4) many Department of Defense programs of record are 
        upgraded replacements of legacy systems that were not premised 
        on the assumption that future conflict could occur in highly-
        contested environments against militarily advanced near-peer 
        rivals;
            (5) considerable growth in the size of the military will 
        not be possible without growth in the budget, because the 
        current future-years defense program assumes that defense 
        spending after fiscal year 2019 will only increase at the rate 
        of inflation, while costs for two of the largest drivers of 
        costs for the Department, namely military personnel and 
        operation and maintenance, continue to grow faster than the 
        rate of inflation;
            (6) the Senate strongly supports the pursuit by the 
        Department of budgetary savings through internal reform and 
        efficiencies, but notes that previous attempts to generate 
        additional resources through such mechanisms did not generate 
        resources as planned;
            (7) increased force modernization investments must be based 
        on a rigorous reassessment of whether current programs will 
        meet present and future warfighting requirements against near-
        peer rivals that are making rapid military technological 
        advancements;
            (8) the Department must conduct further analytical work in 
        order--
                    (A) to facilitate the implementation of the 
                National Defense Strategy, as recommended by the 
                Commission on the National Defense Strategy; and
                    (B) to provide Congress with a more rigorous 
                understanding of, and justification for, future 
                requests for resources to organize, train and equip, 
                and employ the Armed Forces; and
            (9) the Senate encourages the Secretary of Defense to 
        refine the National Defense Strategy into more specific 
        operational tasks and force planning scenarios that the joint 
        force must be ready and able to perform in order to facilitate 
        a better understanding of joint force development priorities 
        and the roles and missions of each Armed Force.
    (b) Report on Roles and Missions.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than February 1, 2019, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report setting forth a re-evaluation of the 
        highest priority missions of the Department of Defense, and of 
        the roles of the Armed Forces in the performance of such 
        missions.
            (2) Goals.--The goals of the re-evaluation required for 
        purposes of the report shall be as follows:
                    (A) To support implementation of the National 
                Defense Strategy.
                    (B) To optimize the effectiveness of the joint 
                force.
                    (C) To inform the preparation of future defense 
                program and budget requests by the Secretary, and the 
                consideration of such requests by Congress.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A detailed description of the pacing threats for each 
        Armed Force, and for special operations forces, and an 
        assessment of the manner in which such pacing threats determine 
        the primary role of each Armed Force, and special operations 
        forces, including the connection between key operational tasks 
        required by contingency plans.
            (2) A specific requirement for the size and composition of 
        each Armed Force, including the following:
                    (A) The required total end strength and force 
                structure by type for the Army.
                    (B) The required fleet size of the Navy, identified 
                by class of ships and the corresponding total end 
                strength requirement once that fleet size is achieved.
                    (C) The required number of operational Air Force 
                squadrons, identified by function and the corresponding 
                total end strength requirement once that number of 
                squadrons is achieved.
                    (D) The required total end strength and force 
                structure by type for the Marine Corps.
                    (E) The force sizing construct used to determine 
                the end strength requirements covered by subparagraphs 
                (A) through (D), the year-by-year plan for achieving 
                such requirements, relevant force posture assumptions, 
                and the associated military personnel costs of such 
                plan.
            (3) A re-evaluation of the roles of the Armed Forces in 
        performing low-intensity missions, such as counterterrorism and 
        security force assistance, including the following:
                    (A) An assessment whether the joint force would 
                benefit from having one Armed Force dedicated primarily 
                to low-intensity missions, thereby enabling the other 
                Armed Forces to focus more exclusively on advanced peer 
                competitors.
                    (B) A detailed description of, and accompanying 
                justification for, the total amount of forces required 
                to perform the security force assistance mission and 
                the planned geographic employment of such forces.
                    (C) A revalidation of the Army plan to construct 
                six Security Force Assistant Brigades, and an 
                assessment of the impact, if any, of such plan on the 
                capability of the Army to perform its primary roles 
                under the National Defense Strategy.
                    (D) An assessment whether the security force 
                assistance mission would be better performed by the 
                Marine Corps, and an assessment of the end strength and 
                force composition changes, if any, required for the 
                Marine Corps to assume such mission.
            (4) A reassessment of the roles and missions of the total 
        ground forces, both Army and Marine Corps, to execute the 
        National Defense Strategy, including the following:
                    (A) A detailed description of the allocation of 
                roles for the Army and Marine Corps in deterring and 
                waging war against advanced peer competitors that can 
                complement the activities and investments of each such 
                Armed Force and optimize the capabilities of each such 
                Armed Force.
                    (B) A detailed description of the appropriate 
                balance and mix of Army force structure, including 
                light infantry, mechanized infantry, armor, air 
                defense, fires, engineers, aviation, signals, and 
                logistics, that is required to perform the roles and 
                missions of the Army against its pacing threats.
                    (C) A detailed description of the modernized 
                capabilities and concepts to be developed by the Army 
                to contribute to joint force operations against 
                advanced peer competitors, including the manner in 
                which Army aviation will evolve in light of unmanned 
                aerial vehicle technology.
                    (D) A revalidation of the requirement for ground 
                force modernization efforts, including the Joint Light 
                Tactical Vehicle, Future Vertical Lift, and Mobile 
                Protected Fires, that are not optimized for conflict 
                between the United States and advanced peer 
                competitors.
                    (E) A detailed description of requirements for Army 
                forces needed to support theater operations.
            (5) An assessment, based on operational plans, of the 
        ability of power projection platforms to survive and 
        effectively perform the highest priority operational missions 
        described in the National Defense Strategy, including the 
        following:
                    (A) An assessment of the feasibility of the current 
                plans and investments by the Navy and Marine Corps to 
                operate and defend their sea bases in contested 
                environments.
                    (B) An assessment whether amphibious forced entry 
                operations against advanced peer competitors should 
                remain an enduring mission for the joint force 
                considering the stressing operational nature and 
                significant resource requirements of such mission.
                    (C) An assessment whether a transition from large-
                deck amphibious ships to small aircraft carriers would 
                result in a more lethal and survivable Marine Corps sea 
                base that could accommodate larger numbers of more 
                diverse strike aircraft.
                    (D) An assessment of the manner in which an 
                acceleration of development and fielding of longer-
                range, unmanned, carrier-suitable strike aircraft could 
                better meet operational requirements and alter the 
                requirement for shorter-range, manned tactical fighter 
                aircraft.
                    (E) An assessment of the manner in which the 
                emerging technology to operate large numbers of low-
                cost, autonomous, attributable systems in the air, on 
                and under the sea, on land, and in space could change 
                the manner in which the joint force projects power 
                globally.
            (6) An assessment, based on operational plans, of the 
        ability of manned, stealthy, penetrating strike platforms to 
        survive and perform effectively the highest priority 
        operational missions described in the National Defense 
        Strategy, including the following:
                    (A) An assessment whether anticipated advances in 
                stealth technology and the employment of such 
                technology on existing or developmental systems, such 
                as the F-35 and B-21 aircraft, can be expected to 
                outpace and overmatch adversary capabilities to detect 
                and target such systems.
                    (B) An assessment of the ability of fourth 
                generation aircraft with advanced sensors and weapons 
                to perform certain missions equally or more effectively 
                than the missions assigned to, or envisioned for, 
                fifth-generation penetrating strike platforms.
                    (C) An assessment of the manner in which the 
                emerging technology to operate large numbers of low-
                cost, autonomous, attributable systems in the air, on 
                and under the sea, on land, and in space could obviate 
                or reduce the requirement for penetrating strike 
                platforms.
            (7) A re-evaluation of the most effective and efficient 
        means for the joint force to perform the air superiority 
        mission in both contested and uncontested environments, 
        including the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the ability to achieve air 
                superiority from other domains, including with land-
                based systems, naval systems, undersea systems, space-
                based systems, electronic warfare systems, or cyber 
                capabilities.
                    (B) A validation of the envisioned operational and 
                cost effectiveness of the Penetrating Counter-Air 
                platform, and of the requirement for developing this 
                system as part of the Air Force Next Generation Air 
                Dominance program.
                    (C) A detailed description of the optimal mix 
                across the joint force of fourth-generation and fifth-
                generation fighter aircraft, bomber aircraft, and Next 
                Generation Air Dominance systems to fulfill operational 
                demands for air superiority.
                    (D) A detailed description of the manner in which 
                the joint force will perform the mission of light 
                aerial attack in uncontested environments to support 
                counterterrorism and security force assistance 
                missions, and the mission of countering violent 
                extremism operations, at the lowest cost to the 
                readiness of advanced, multirole combat aircraft.
                    (E) A determination of what Armed Force, in 
                addition to the Air Force, should have a role in the 
                mission of light air attack in uncontested 
                environments.
            (8) A reevaluation of the roles and missions of the joint 
        special operations enterprise, including the following:
                    (A) A detailed assessment whether the joint special 
                operations enterprise is currently performing too many 
                missions worldwide, and whether any such missions could 
                be performed adequately and more economically by 
                conventional units.
                    (B) A detailed assessment whether the global 
                allocation of special operations forces, and especially 
                the most capable units, is aligned to the pacing 
                threats and priority missions of the National Defense 
                Strategy.
                    (C) A detailed description of the changes required 
                to align the joint special operations enterprise more 
                effectively with the National Defense Strategy.
            (9) An assessment of the manner in which increased use of 
        the space domain should revise or reallocate the requirements 
        of the joint force, including the following:
                    (A) A detailed description of the missions, 
                including joint moving target indication, air battle 
                management, and missile and aircraft tracking and 
                targeting, that could be performed more effectively 
                from space-based platforms due to emerging technology 
                and operational requirements.
                    (B) An assessment of the manner in which the joint 
                force can take advantage of the development and 
                deployment of disaggregated commercial satellite 
                Internet constellations to replace legacy tactical 
                communications networks and devices and achieve multi-
                domain command and control more effectively and at 
                lower cost.
                    (C) An assessment of the manner in which to ensure 
                that the joint force has access to technologies that 
                deliver superior offensive space capabilities and a 
                maneuver advantage to and within the space domain, 
                including reusable launch systems and spacecraft, on-
                orbit refueling and manufacturing, on-orbit power 
                generation, and exploitation of space minerals and 
                propellants.
                    (D) A detailed description of the actions to be 
                taken by components of the Department to promote and 
                protect the development of a licit space economy, 
                including the following:
                            (i) Defense of commercial activities, 
                        facilities, and claims.
                            (ii) Safety of navigation.
                            (iii) Rescue and recovery.
                            (iv) Construction and maintenance of public 
                        works in Cis-Lunar Space.
                            (v) Active debris remediation.
                            (vi) Establishment of an on-orbit national 
                        strategic reserve of space minerals and 
                        propellants.
            (10) A reassessment of the manner in which the joint force 
        will perform the mission of logistics in contested 
        environments, including the following:
                    (A) A revalidation of the requirement for the KC-46 
                tanker aircraft, including an assessment of the aerial 
                refueling requirements in contested environments and a 
                greater reliance on distributed systems of systems.
                    (B) A detailed assessment whether the mission of 
                logistics in contested environments could be better 
                performed by larger numbers of lower-cost, autonomous 
                systems capable of dispersed operations on land, at 
                sea, and in the air.
                    (C) A detailed assessment whether greater forward 
                stationing of joint force capabilities and personnel 
                would be more operationally effective in performing the 
                contact and blunt missions of the National Defense 
                Strategy.
    (d) Form.--The report required in subsection (b) shall be submitted 
in classified form, and shall include an unclassified summary.

SEC. 1042. ANNUAL REPORTS BY THE ARMED FORCES ON OUT-YEAR UNCONSTRAINED 
              TOTAL MUNITIONS REQUIREMENTS AND OUT-YEAR INVENTORY 
              NUMBERS.

    (a) Reports Required.--Chapter 9 of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by inserting after section 222a the following new section:
``Sec. 222b. Armed forces: Out-Year Unconstrained Total Munitions 
              Requirements; Out-Year inventory numbers
    ``(a) Annual Reports.--At the same time each year that the budget 
for the fiscal year beginning in such year is submitted to Congress 
pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, the chief of staff of each 
armed force (other than the Coast Guard) shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report setting forth for such armed 
force each of the following for such fiscal year, broken out as 
specified in subsection (b):
            ``(1) The Out-Year Unconstrained Total Munitions 
        Requirement.
            ``(2) The Out-Year inventory numbers.
    ``(b) Presentation.--The Out-Year Unconstrained Total Munitions 
Requirement and Out-Year inventory numbers for an armed force for a 
fiscal year pursuant to subsection (a) shall include specific inventory 
objective requirements for each variant of munitions with respect to 
each of the following:
            ``(1) Combat Requirement, broken out by operation plan 
        (OPLAN).
            ``(2) Current Operation/Forward Presence Requirement.
            ``(3) Strategic Readiness Requirement.
            ``(4) Homeland Defense.
            ``(5) Training and Testing Requirement.
            ``(6) Total Out-Year Unconstrained Total Munitions 
        Requirement, calculated in accordance with the implementation 
        guidance described in subsection (c).
            ``(7) Out-year worldwide inventory.
    ``(c) Implementation Guidance Used.--In submitting information 
pursuant to subsection (a) for a fiscal year, the chief of staff of 
each armed force shall describe and explain the munitions requirements 
process implementation guidance developed by the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and used by such armed force 
for the munitions requirements process for such armed force for that 
fiscal year.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `chief of staff', with respect to the Marine 
        Corps, means the Commandant of the Marine Corps.
            ``(2) The term `Out-Year Unconstrained Total Munitions 
        Requirement' has the meaning given that term in and for 
        purposes of Department of Defense Instruction 3000.04, or any 
        successor instruction.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 9 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 222a the following new item:

``222b. Armed forces: Out-Year Unconstrained Total Munitions 
                            Requirements; Out-Year inventory 
                            numbers.''.

SEC. 1043. COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF OPERATIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE 
              CHAINS-OF-COMMAND AND FUNCTIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE 
              NAVY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Navy shall conduct a 
comprehensive review of the operational and administrative chains-of-
command and functions of the Department of the Navy.
    (b) Elements.--In conducting the review required by subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall consider options to do each of the following:
            (1) Increase visibility of unit-level readiness at senior 
        levels.
            (2) Reduce so-called ``double-hatting'' and ``triple-
        hatting'' commanders.
            (3) Clarify organizations responsible and accountable for 
        training and certification at the unit, group, and fleet level.
            (4) Simplify reporting requirements applicable to 
        commanding officers.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the results of the 
        review required by subsection (a). The report shall include the 
        following:
                    (A) The results of the review, including any 
                findings of the Secretary as a result of the review.
                    (B) Any organizational changes in operational or 
                administrative chains-of-command or functions of the 
                Department undertaken or to be undertaken by the 
                Secretary in light of the review.
                    (C) Any recommendations for legislative or 
                administration action with respect to the operational 
                or administrative chains-of-command or functions of the 
                Department as the Secretary considers appropriate in 
                light of the review.
            (2) Form.--The report under this subsection shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 1044. MILITARY AVIATION READINESS REVIEW IN SUPPORT OF THE 
              NATIONAL DEFENSE STRATEGY.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on military aviation readiness in support of 
the National Defense Strategy (NDS).
    (b) Review for Report Purposes.--
            (1) In general.--The report under subsection (a) shall be 
        based on a review conducted for purposes of the report in 
        accordance with this section.
            (2) Panel.--The review shall be conducted by a panel 
        consisting of the following:
                    (A) The Commander of the Air Combat Command, who 
                shall head the panel.
                    (B) The Commander of the Army Aviation Branch.
                    (C) The Chief of Naval Air Forces.
                    (D) The Deputy Commandant of the Marine Corps for 
                Aviation.
                    (E) Such other personnel of the Department of 
                Defense as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Review Elements.--The review required by subsection (b) shall 
address the following:
            (1) An analysis of the career progression of military 
        pilots and non-pilot aviators, including a comparison between 
        military pilot and non-pilot aviators, on the one hand, and 
        other military specialities, on the other hand, with respect to 
        each of the following:
                    (A) Tours of duty.
                    (B) Assignment lengths.
                    (C) Minimum service commitments.
                    (D) Professional performance evaluation systems.
                    (E) Statutory and administrative promotion 
                processes.
            (2) An analysis of aircrew aviation training for various 
        aircraft platforms, including--
                    (A) an historical analysis, covering the past 15 
                years, of first and second assignment total flight 
                hours and model-specific flight hours for military 
                pilots and non-pilot aviators; and
                    (B) an analysis of the flight hour program in order 
                to determine the appropriate level of required monthly 
                flight hours and sorties to maintain currency (minimum 
                safe level) and proficiency (minimum level to be 
                tactically competent).
            (3) An analysis of the effect of recent operational 
        deployments on the ability of military pilots and non-pilot 
        aviators to build and maintain readiness for potential threats 
        from a near-peer adversary, including--
                    (A) a comparison of rates of simulator usage for 
                military pilots and non-pilot aviators within and not 
                within the pre-deployment training window; and
                    (B) an assessment of the suitability of training 
                curriculum to address high-end combat operations 
                against a near-peer adversary.
            (4) An analysis of aviation squadron size and composition, 
        including--
                    (A) individual unit-level aircraft allocation;
                    (B) aviation platform-specific force structure; and
                    (C) quantity of squadrons within each aviation 
                platform.
            (5) An analysis of aviation squadron manning documents on 
        appropriate levels and composition of military pilots, non-
        pilot aviators, and non-aircrew for each squadron in support of 
        the most current National Defense Strategy, including a 
        consideration of--
                    (A) appropriate levels and composition of military 
                pilots, non-pilot aviators, and non-aircrew for each 
                squadron in support of such National Defense Strategy;
                    (B) flight-related workload compared with non-
                flight related workload for military pilots and non-
                pilot aviators;
                    (C) the number of different aircraft platforms to 
                which enlisted maintenance personnel are expected to be 
                assigned throughout a typical career; and
                    (D) career training milestones for enlisted 
                maintenance personnel, and the effects of such 
                milestones on military aviation readiness.
            (6) An analysis of logistics programs in support of 
        military aviation readiness, including--
                    (A) an evaluation of any shortfalls in logistics 
                programs that serve as contributing factors to both 
                military pilot retention and overall readiness of 
                military aviation units;
                    (B) an analysis of aircraft parts cannibalization 
                rates;
                    (C) a determination of average mission capable 
                ratings for aircraft throughout the various stages of 
                the deployment cycle;
                    (D) an analysis of rates of reassignment of 
                aircraft from non-deploying units to deploying units; 
                and
                    (E) an identification of individual aircraft 
                communities, if any, with strained supply chains with 
                single-source suppliers.

SEC. 1045. REPORT ON CAPABILITIES AND CAPACITIES OF ARMORED BRIGADE 
              COMBAT TEAMS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the capabilities and 
capacities of Armored Brigade Combat Teams (ABCTs).
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A description of the total number of Armored Brigade 
        Combat Teams required to support the National Defense Strategy 
        (NDS).
            (2) A description of the manner in which the Army plans to 
        equip and field future Armored Brigade Combat Teams.
            (3) A description of the total number of mechanized 
        infantry companies required in support of the Armored Brigade 
        Combat Teams.
            (4) A description of steps being taken to improve the 
        number and quality of live-fire gunnery exercises executed each 
        year, including improving execution of battalion and brigade-
        level combined arms live-fire exercises both at home station 
        and at the Combat Training Centers.
            (5) A description of training being conducted to train 
        Armored Brigade Combat Teams in combined arms for air defense 
        and to counter unmanned aerial vehicles with organic weapons 
        and tactics.
            (6) A plan to improve personnel preparedness by the 
        reduction of non-deployable soldiers and improvements in combat 
        vehicle crew stability and material readiness of key combat 
        systems.
            (7) A description of deficiencies in repair parts and 
        number of qualified mechanics, and a plan to correct such 
        deficiencies.
            (8) A plan for the modernization of the Armored Brigade 
        Combat Teams.

SEC. 1046. IMPROVEMENT OF ANNUAL REPORT ON CIVILIAN CASUALTIES IN 
              CONNECTION WITH UNITED STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS.

    (a) Modification and Expansion of Elements.--Subsection (b) of 
section 1057 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, including each 
        specific mission, strike, engagement, raid, or incident,'' 
        after ``military operations'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(E), by inserting before the period at 
        the end the following: ``, including a differentiation between 
        those killed and those injured'';
            (3) in paragraph (3), by inserting before the period at the 
        end the following: ``, and, when appropriate, makes ex gratia 
        payments to the victims or their families'';
            (4) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph (5):
            ``(5) Any update or modification to any report under this 
        section during a previous year.''.
    (b) Scope of Unclassified Form of Report.--Subsection (d) of such 
section is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
``The unclassified form of each report shall, at a minimum, be 
responsive to each element under subsection (b) of a report under 
subsection (a), and shall be made available to the public at the same 
time it is submitted to Congress (unless the Secretary certifies in 
writing that the publication of such information poses a threat to the 
national security interests of the United States).''.

SEC. 1047. REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PARTICIPATION IN EXPORT 
              ADMINISTRATION REGULATIONS LICENSE APPLICATION REVIEW 
              PROCESS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the enactment of 
this Act, and every 180 days thereafter until the date that is three 
years after such date of enactment, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Policy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
the participation by the Department of Defense in the process for 
reviewing applications for export licenses under the Export 
Administration Regulations as a reviewing agency under Executive Order 
12981 (50 U.S.C. 4603 note; relating to administration of export 
controls).
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) The number of applications for export licenses under 
        the Export Administration Regulations reviewed by the 
        Department of Defense in the 180-day period preceding the 
        submission of the report.
            (2) The number of instances during that 180-day period in 
        which the Department disagreed with a final determination made 
        with respect to such an application under the review procedures 
        set forth in Executive Order 12981.
            (3) A summary of such instances, including--
                    (A) a summary of the applicants for such licenses 
                and the recipients of items pursuant to such licenses 
                in such instances;
                    (B) a description of sensitive technologies 
                involved in such instances; and
                    (C) a description of the rationale of the 
                Department for disagreeing with such determinations.
            (4) The number of such applications under review by the 
        Department or undergoing interagency dispute resolution as of 
        the date of the submission of the report.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Export Administration Regulations Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``Export Administration Regulations'' means subchapter C of 
chapter VII of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations.

SEC. 1048. AUTOMATIC SUNSET FOR FUTURE STATUTORY REPORTING 
              REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 23 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 480 the following new section:
``Sec. 480a. Reports to Congress: termination of indefinite-duration 
              reports after three years
    ``(a) In General.--Any provision of law enacted on or after the 
date of enactment of this section that includes an indefinite-duration 
report requirement shall cease to be effective, with respect to that 
requirement, three years after the date of the enactment of that 
provision of law unless that provision of law expressly states that 
this section is inapplicable to that requirement or that provision of 
law.
    ``(b) Indefinite-duration Report Requirement Defined.--In this 
section, the term `indefinite-duration requirement' means a requirement 
in any provision of law for the Secretary of Defense (or any other 
officer or employee of the Department of Defense) to submit to Congress 
(or any committee of Congress) a periodic report for which the law does 
not--
            ``(1) state a specific period of time as the period during 
        which that report is required to be submitted or that provision 
        of law is in effect; or
            ``(2) state a specific termination date for the requirement 
        to submit the report or for that provision of law.
    ``(c) Periodic Report Defined.--In this section, the term `periodic 
report' means a report required to be submitted on an annual, 
semiannual, or other regular periodic basis.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 23 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 480 the following new item:

``480a. Reports to Congress: termination of indefinite-duration reports 
                            after three years.''.

SEC. 1049. REPEAL OF CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REPORTING 
              REQUIREMENTS THAT OTHERWISE TERMINATE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 
              2021.

    (a) Title 10, United States Code.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
            (1)(A) Section 229, relating to the display of budget 
        information for programs for combating terrorism, is repealed.
            (B) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 9 is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 229.
            (2)(A) Section 231a, relating to budgeting for life-cycle 
        costs of aircraft for the Navy, Army, and Air Force, is 
        repealed.
            (B) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 9 is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 231a.
            (3) Section 2276, relating to commercial space launch 
        cooperation, is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (e); and
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as 
                subsections (e) and (f), respectively.
            (4) Section 7310, relating to report on repair of certain 
        vessels in foreign shipyards, is amended by striking subsection 
        (c).
    (b) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007.--
Section 1017 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2379), relating to 
obtaining carriage by vessel, is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (e); and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).
    (c) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008.--
Section 1034(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2008 (10 U.S.C. 272 note), relating to distribution of chemical 
and biological agents to non-Federal entities, is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (d); and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
    (d) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009.--
Section 1047(d) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2009 (10 U.S.C. 2366b note), relating to reports on 
bandwidth requirements for major defense acquisition programs, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (2);
            (2) by striking ``(d) Formal Review Process for Bandwidth 
        Requirements .--'' and all that follows through ``(1) In 
        general.--The Secretary'' and inserting the following:
    ``(d) Formal Review Process for Bandwidth Requirements.--The 
Secretary''; and
            (3) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
        paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively, and indenting 
        appropriately.
    (e) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011.--
Section 1217 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2011 (22 U.S.C. 7513 note), relating to authority to 
establish a program to develop and carry out infrastructure projects in 
Afghanistan, is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (i); and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection (i).
    (f) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015.--
Section 1026 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 127 
Stat. 3490), relating to availability of funds for retirement of 
inactivation of Ticonderoga class cruisers or dock landing ships, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (d); and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
    (g) Conforming Amendments.--Section 1061 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. 111 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (c), by striking paragraphs (14), (16), 
        (41), and (59);
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking paragraph (3);
            (3) in subsection (g), by striking paragraph (3); and
            (4) in subsection (i), by striking paragraphs (15), (18), 
        and (24).

SEC. 1050. REPORT ON POTENTIAL IMPROVEMENTS TO CERTAIN MILITARY 
              EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 1, 2019, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report setting forth the results of a review and assessment, 
        obtained by the Secretary for purposes of the report, of the 
        potential effects on the military education provided by the 
        educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified 
        in subsection (b) of the actions described in subsection (c).
            (2) Conducting organization.--The review and assessment 
        required for purposes of the report shall be performed by an 
        organization selected by the Secretary from among organizations 
        independent of the Department that have expertise in the 
        analysis of matters in connection with higher education.
    (b) Educational Institutions of the Department of Defense.--The 
educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified in this 
subsection are the following:
            (1) The senior level service schools and intermediate level 
        service schools (as such terms are defined in section 2151(b) 
        of title 10, United States Code).
            (2) The Air Force Institute of Technology.
            (3) The National Defense University.
            (4) The Joint Special Operations University.
            (5) The Army Armament Graduate School.
            (6) Any other military educational institution of the 
        Department specified by the Secretary for purposes of this 
        section.
    (c) Actions.--The actions described in this subsection with respect 
to the educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified 
in subsection (b) are the following:
            (1) Modification of admission and graduation requirements.
            (2) Reduction or expansion of degree-granting authority.
            (3) Reduction or expansion of the acceptance of research 
        grants.
            (4) Reduction of the number of attending students 
        generally.
            (5) Reduction of the number of attending students through 
        the sponsoring of education of an increased number of students 
        at non-Department of Defense education institutions of higher 
        education.
            (6) Increase in the frequency of curriculum changes to 
        account for emerging subject matters of importance to national 
        defense.
            (7) Modification of civilian faculty management practices, 
        including employment practices.
    (d) Additional Elements.--In addition to the matters described in 
subsection (a), the review and report under this section shall also 
include the following:
            (1) A comparison of admission standards and graduation 
        requirements of the educational institutions of the Department 
        of Defense specified in subsection (b) with admission standards 
        and graduation requirements of public and private institutions 
        of higher education that are comparable to the educational 
        institutions of the Department of Defense.
            (2) A comparison of the goals and missions of the 
        educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified 
        in subsection (b) with the goals and missions of such public 
        and private institutions of higher education.
            (3) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate 
        for purposes of this section.

SEC. 1051. RECRUITING COSTS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Briefing Required.--Not later than one year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall brief the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives on the results of a study, conducted by the Secretary 
for purposes of the briefing, on the costs of the Armed Forces in 
recruiting for members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A description of the recruiting costs of each Armed 
        Force in each of fiscal years 2010 through 2019.
            (2) An estimate of the recruiting costs of each Armed Force 
        in each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
            (3) A description of the factors that contributed 
        significantly to the recruiting costs of the Armed Forces 
        during fiscal years 2010 through 2019.
            (4) Any other matters in connection with the recruiting 
        costs of the Armed Forces that the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 1061. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER FUNDS FOR BIEN HOA DIOXIN CLEANUP.

    (a) Transfer Authority.--Notwithstanding section 2215 of title 10, 
United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may transfer to the 
Secretary of State, for use by the United States Agency for 
International Development, amounts to be used for the Bien Hoa dioxin 
cleanup in Vietnam.
    (b) Limitation on Amounts.--Not more than $15,000,000 may be 
transferred in each of fiscal years 2019 through 2027 under the 
authority in subsection (a).
    (c) Source of Funds.--The Secretary of Defense may transfer funds 
appropriated to the Department of Defense for ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Defense-wide'' under the authority in subsection (a) .
    (d) Additional Transfer Authority.--The transfer authority provided 
under subsection (a) is in addition to any other transfer authority 
available to the Department of Defense.

SEC. 1062. IMPROVEMENT OF DATABASE ON EMERGENCY RESPONSE CAPABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1406 of the John Warner National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 
2436; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended--
            (1) by inserting before ``The Secretary'' the following: 
        ``(a) Database Required.--'';
            (2) in subsection (a), as designated by paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``each States's National 
                        Guard, as reported by the States'' and 
                        inserting ``the National Guard of each State 
                        and Territory, as reported by the States and 
                        Territories''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``and Territories'' after 
                        ``their home States''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(3) Cyber capabilities of the National Guard identified 
        by the Department as critical for response to domestic natural 
        or manmade disasters.
            ``(4) Cyber capabilities of the other reserve components of 
        the Armed Forces identified by the Department as critical for 
        response to domestic natural or manmade disasters.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Information Required To Keep Database Current.--In 
maintaining the database required by subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall identify and revise the information required to be included in 
the database at least once every two years for purposes of keeping the 
database current.''.
    (b) Establishment of Database.--
            (1) Deadline for establishment.--The Secretary of Defense 
        shall establish the database required by section 1406 of the 
        John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2007, as amended by subsection (a), by not later than one year 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Use of existing database or system for certain 
        capabilities.--The Secretary may meet the requirement with 
        respect to the capabilities described in subsection (a)(1) of 
        section 1406 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2007, as so amended, in connection with the 
        database required by that section through use or modification 
        of a current database or tracking system of the Department of 
        Defense if the Secretary determines that such action will--
                    (A) expedite compliance with the requirement; and
                    (B) achieve such compliance at a cost not greater 
                than the cost of establishing anew the database 
                otherwise covered by the requirement.

SEC. 1063. ACCEPTANCE AND DISTRIBUTION BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF 
              ASSISTANCE FROM CERTAIN NONPROFIT ENTITIES IN SUPPORT OF 
              MISSIONS OF DEPLOYED UNITED STATES PERSONNEL AROUND THE 
              WORLD.

    (a) Finding.--The Senate finds that Spirit of America, a privately-
funded, nonpartisan, nonprofit organization, acting in partnership with 
the Department of Defense, has made an important contribution in 
supporting the missions of deployed United States personnel around the 
world.
    (b) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that United 
States military commanders should, consistent with applicable laws, 
regulations, and guidance developed consistent with section 1088 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
115-91), collaborate with and provide transportation and other 
logistical support to covered non-Federal entities, including Spirit of 
America, to advance the military missions of the Armed Forces.
    (c) Distribution of Covered Non-Federal Entity Assistance Abroad 
Through Department of Defense.--
            (1) Acceptance and coordination of assistance.--The 
        Department of Defense (including members of the Armed Forces) 
        may, at the discretion of the Secretary of Defense and in 
        accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary and developed 
        in coordination with the Secretary of State and the 
        Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
        Development--
                    (A) accept from any covered non-Federal entity 
                humanitarian, economic, and other nonlethal assistance 
                funded by private funds in the carrying out of the 
                purposes of such entity; and
                    (B) respond to requests from covered non-Federal 
                entities for the identification of the needs of local 
                populations abroad for assistance, and coordinate with 
                such entitites in the provision and distribution of 
                such assistance, in the carrying out of such purposes.
            (2) Distribution of assistance to local populations.--In 
        accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary of Defense, 
        and developed in coordination with the Secretary of State and 
        the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
        Development, members of the Armed Forces abroad may provide to 
        local populations abroad humanitarian, economic, and other 
        nonlethal assistance provided to the Department by a covered 
        non-Federal entity pursuant to this subsection.
            (3) Scope of guidance.--The guidance issued pursuant to 
        this subsection shall ensure that any assistance distributed 
        pursuant to this subsection shall be for purposes of supporting 
        the mission or missions of the Department and the Armed Forces 
        for which such assistance is provided by a covered non-Federal 
        entity.
            (4) Dod support for entity activities.--In accordance with 
        guidance issued by the Secretary of Defense, the Department, 
        and the Armed Forces may--
                    (A) provide transportation, lodging, storage, and 
                other logistical support--
                            (i) to personnel of a covered non-Federal 
                        entity (whether in the United States or abroad) 
                        who are carrying out the purposes of such 
                        entity; and
                            (ii) in connection with the acceptance and 
                        distribution of assistance provided by a 
                        covered non-Federal entity; and
                    (B) use assets of the Department and the Armed 
                Forces in the provision of support described in 
                subparagraph (A).
    (d) Covered Non-Federal Entity Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered non-Federal entity'' means the following:
            (1) Spirit of America, a privately-funded, nonpartisan, 
        nonprofit organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that is exempt from taxation 
        under section 501(a) of such Code.
            (2) Any other organization that--
                    (A) is based in the United States;
                    (B) has an independent board of directors and is 
                subject to independent financial audits;
                    (C) is substantially privately-funded;
                    (D) is described in section 501(c)(3) of the 
                Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from 
                taxation under section 501(a) of such Code; and
                    (E) provides international assistance.

SEC. 1064. UNITED STATES POLICY WITH RESPECT TO FREEDOM OF NAVIGATION 
              AND OVERFLIGHT.

    (a) Declaration of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
to fly, sail, and operate throughout the oceans, seas, and airspace of 
the world wherever international law allows.
    (b) Implementation of Policy.--In furtherance of the policy set 
forth in subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense should--
            (1) plan and execute a robust series of routine and regular 
        air and naval presence missions throughout the world and 
        throughout the year, including for critical transportation 
        corridors and key routes for global commerce;
            (2) in addition to the missions executed pursuant to 
        paragraph (1), execute routine and regular air and maritime 
        freedom of navigation operations throughout the year, in 
        accordance with international law, including the use of 
        expanded military options and maneuvers beyond innocent 
        passage; and
            (3) to the maximum extent practicable, execute the missions 
        pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) with regional partner 
        countries and allies of the United States.

SEC. 1065. PROHIBITION OF FUNDS FOR CHINESE LANGUAGE INSTRUCTION 
              PROVIDED BY A CONFUCIUS INSTITUTE.

    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2019 under this 
Act may be obligated or expended for Chinese language instruction 
provided by a Confucius Institute.
    (b) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2019 under this 
Act may be obligated or expended to support a Chinese language program 
at an institution of higher education that hosts a Confucius Institute.
    (c) Waiver.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
Readiness may waive the limitation in subsection (b) with respect to a 
Chinese language program at a specific institution of higher education 
if the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness--
            (1) certifies to the congressional defense committees 
        that--
                    (A) Confucius Institute employees and instructors 
                will have no affiliation with the program;
                    (B) Confucius Institute employees and instructors 
                will provide no instruction or support to the program;
                    (C) Confucius Institute employees and instructors 
                will have no authority or influence with regard to the 
                curriculum and activities of the program; and
                    (D) the institution has made publicly available all 
                memoranda of understanding, contracts, and other 
                agreements between the institution and the Confucius 
                Institute, or between the institution and any agency of 
                or organization affiliated with the government of the 
                People's Republic of China; or
            (2) certifies to the congressional defense committees 
        that--
                    (A) the requirements described in subparagraphs (A) 
                through (C) of paragraph (1) have been met; and
                    (B) the waiver of the limitation in subsection (b) 
                is necessary for national security, and there is no 
                reasonable alternative to issuing the waiver.
    (d) Definitions.--
            (1) Chinese language program.--The term ``Chinese language 
        program'' means any Department of Defense program designed to 
        provide or support Chinese language instruction, including the 
        National Security Education Program, the Language Flagship 
        program, Project Global Officer, and the Language Training 
        Centers program.
            (2) Confucius institute.--The term ``Confucius Institute'' 
        means a Confucius Institute that is operated by the Office of 
        Chinese Languages Council International, also known as Hanban, 
        which is affiliated with the Ministry of Education of the 
        People's Republic of China.
            (3) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

               Subtitle A--Department of Defense Matters

SEC. 1101. INAPPLICABILITY OF CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE QUALIFICATIONS 
              BY QUALIFICATION REVIEW BOARDS OF OFFICE OF PERSONNEL 
              MANAGEMENT FOR INITIAL APPOINTMENTS TO SENIOR EXECUTIVE 
              SERVICE POSITIONS IN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Temporary Inapplicability.--Notwithstanding section 3393(c) of 
title 5, United States Code, or any regulations implementing that 
section, and subject to the provisions of this section, the Secretary 
of Defense may appoint individuals for service in the Senior Executive 
Service of the Department of Defense without such individuals being 
subject to the certification of executive qualifications by a 
qualification review board of the Office of Personnel Management in 
connection with such appointment otherwise required by that section.
    (b) Qualifications of Individuals Appointed.--The Secretary shall 
ensure that individuals appointed under this section possess the 
necessary qualifications and experience for the position to which 
appointed.
    (c) Limitation.--The total number of appointments made under this 
section in any year may not exceed 50 appointments.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than one year after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        committees of Congress and official specified in paragraph (3) 
        a report on the number and type of appointments made under this 
        section as of the date of the report, including--
                    (A) a description of the qualifications of the 
                individuals appointed; and
                    (B) data on the time required to appoint the 
                individuals.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than two years after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        committees of Congress and official specified in paragraph (3) 
        a report on the use of the authority in this section. The 
        report shall include the following:
                    (A) The number and type of appointments made under 
                this section during the one-year period ending on the 
                date of the report.
                    (B) Data on and an assessment whether appointments 
                under the authority in this section reduced the time to 
                hire when compared with the time to hire under the 
                current review system of the Office of Personnel 
                Management.
                    (C) An assessment of the utility of the appointment 
                authority and process under this section.
                    (D) An assessment whether the appointments made 
                under this section resulted in higher quality new 
                executives for the Senior Executive Service of the 
                Department when compared with the executives produced 
                under the current review system of the Office of 
                Personnel Management.
                    (E) Any recommendation for the improvement of the 
                selection and qualification process for the Senior 
                Executive Service of the Department that the Secretary 
                considers necessary in order to attract and hire highly 
                qualified candidates for service in that Senior 
                Executive Service.
            (3) Committees of congress and official.--The committees of 
        Congress and official specified in this paragraph are--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
                of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    (C) the Director of the Office of Personnel 
                Management.
    (e) Sunset.--Subsection (a) shall cease to be effective on the date 
that is two years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1102. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION 
              LABORATORIES AND MAJOR RANGE AND TEST FACILITIES BASE 
              FACILITIES FOR RECENT SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, 
              AND MATHEMATICS GRADUATES OF MINORITY-SERVING 
              INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) Authority To Make Direct Appointments.--The director of any 
facility specified in subsection (b) may appoint any qualified recent 
graduate of a covered educational institution with a degree in science, 
technology, engineering, or mathematics to a position at such facility 
described in subsection (d) without regard to the provisions of 
subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Facilities.--A facility specified in this subsection is any 
facility as follows:
            (1) A science and technology reinvention laboratory of the 
        Department of Defense, as designated pursuant to section 
        1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2010 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note).
            (2) A facility of the Major Range and Test Facilities Base 
        of the Department.
    (c) Recent Graduates.--For purposes of this section, a person is a 
recent graduate of a covered educational institution if--
            (1) the person was awarded a degree by the institution not 
        more than two years before the date of the appointment of the 
        person pursuant to this section; or
            (2) in the case of any person who has completed a period of 
        obligated service in a uniformed service of more than four 
        years as of the date the appointment of the person pursuant to 
        this section, the person was awarded a degree by the 
        institution not more than four years before such date of 
        appointment.
    (d) Covered Positions.--The positions to which persons may be 
appointed pursuant to this section at a facility specified in 
subsection (b) are scientific and engineering positions at the 
facility.
    (e) Duration of Appointment.--Any appointment pursuant to this 
section may be made on a temporary, term, or permanent basis, at the 
election of the director of the facility making such appointment.
    (f) Covered Educational Institution Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``covered educational institution'' has the meaning given that 
term in section 2362(e) of title 10, United States Code.
    (g) Sunset.--
            (1) In general.--The authority to make appointments under 
        this section shall expire on the date that is five years after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Construction.--Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be 
        construed to terminate an appointment made under this section 
        before the expiration date provided in that paragraph in 
        accordance with the terms of such appointment.

SEC. 1103. INCLUSION OF STRATEGIC CAPABILITIES OFFICE AND DEFENSE 
              INNOVATION UNIT EXPERIMENTAL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              IN PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY TO ATTRACT EXPERTS IN 
              SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1599h of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraphs:
            ``(4) Strategic capabilities office.--The Director of the 
        Strategic Capabilities Office may carry out a program of 
        personnel management authority provided in subsection (b) in 
        order to facilitate recruitment of eminent experts in science 
        or engineering for the Office.
            ``(5) DIUx.--The Director of the Defense Innovation Unit 
        Experimental may carry out a program of personnel management 
        authority provided in subsection (b) in order to facilitate 
        recruitment of eminent experts in science or engineering for 
        the Unit.''.
    (b) Scope of Appointment Authority.--Subsection (b)(1) of such 
section is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the end; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(D) in the case of the Strategic Capabilities 
                Office, appoint scientists and engineers to a total of 
                not more than 5 scientific and engineering positions in 
                the Office; and
                    ``(E) in the case of the Defense Innovation Unit 
                Experimental, appoint scientists and engineers to a 
                total of not more than 5 scientific and engineering 
                positions in the Unit;''.
    (c) Extension of Terms of Appointment.--Subsection (c)(2) of such 
section is amended by striking ``or the Office of Operational Test and 
Evaluation'' and inserting ``the Office of Operational Test and 
Evaluation, the Strategic Capabilities Office, or the Defense 
Innovation Unit Experimental''.

SEC. 1104. ENHANCEMENT OF FLEXIBLE MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES FOR SCIENCE 
              AND TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION LABORATORIES OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Enhancement of Noncompetitive Conversions of Appointments of 
Students Enrolled in Scientific and Engineering Programs.--Section 
2358a(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``to permanent 
        appointment'' and inserting ``of appointments''; and
            (2) by striking ``to a permanent appointment'' and 
        inserting ``to another temporary appointment or to a term or 
        permanent appointment''.
    (b) Enhancement of Pilot Program on Dynamic Shaping of Workforce 
Technical Skills and Expertise.--Section 1109(b)(1)(A) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
Stat. 1028; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended by striking ``to appoint'' 
and all that follows and inserting ``to make appointments as follows:
                            ``(i) Appointment of qualified scientific 
                        and technical personnel who are not current 
                        Department of Defense civilian employees into 
                        any scientific or technical position in the 
                        laboratory for a period of more than one year 
                        but not more than six years.
                            ``(ii) Appointment of qualified scientific 
                        and technical personnel who are Department 
                        civilian employees in term appointments into 
                        any scientific or technical position in the 
                        laboratory for a period of more than one year 
                        but not more than six years.''.

SEC. 1105. INCLUSION OF OFFICE OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AMONG COMPONENTS 
              OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COVERED BY DIRECT HIRE 
              AUTHORITY FOR FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT EXPERTS.

    Section 1110(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. 1580 note prec.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (9) as 
        paragraphs (2) through (10), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting before paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph (1):
            ``(1) The Office of the Secretary of Defense.''.

SEC. 1106. AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY CIVILIAN FACULTY MEMBERS AT THE JOINT 
              SPECIAL OPERATIONS UNIVERSITY.

    Section 1595(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) The Joint Special Operations University.''.

                  Subtitle B--Government-Wide Matters

SEC. 1121. ALCOHOL TESTING OF CIVIL SERVICE MARINERS OF THE MILITARY 
              SEALIFT COMMAND ASSIGNED TO VESSELS.

    (a) Alcohol Testing.--Chapter 643 of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by inserting after section 7479 the following new section:
``Sec. 7479a. Civil service mariners of Military Sealift Command: 
              alcohol testing
    ``The Secretary of the Navy may prescribe regulations establishing 
a program to conduct on-duty reasonable suspicion alcohol testing and 
post-accident alcohol testing of civil service mariners of the Military 
Sealift Command who are assigned to vessels.''.
    (b) Release of Alcohol Test Results.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7479 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in the heading of subsection (a), by inserting 
                ``or Alcohol'' after ``Drug''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or alcohol'' after ``drug'' each 
                place it appears.
            (2) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 7479. Civil service mariners of Military Sealift Command: 
              release of drug and alcohol test results to Coast 
              Guard''.
    (c) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of chapter 643 of such title is amended by striking the item 
relating to section 7479 and inserting the following new items:

``7479. Civil service mariners of Military Sealift Command: release of 
                            drug and alcohol test results to Coast 
                            Guard.
``7479a. Civil service mariners of Military Sealift Command: alcohol 
                            testing.''.

SEC. 1122. EXPEDITED HIRING AUTHORITY FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES AND POST 
              SECONDARY STUDENTS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 31 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 3115. Expedited hiring authority for college graduates; 
              competitive service
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Director.--The term `Director' means the Director of 
        the Office of Personnel Management.
            ``(2)  Institution of higher education.--The term 
        `institution of higher education' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
    ``(b) Appointment.--
            ``(1) In general.--The head of an agency may appoint, 
        without regard to any provision of sections 3309 through 3319 
        and 3330, a qualified individual to a position in the 
        competitive service classified in a professional or 
        administrative occupational category at the GS-11 level, or an 
        equivalent level, or below.
            ``(2) Restrictions.--An appointment under paragraph (1) 
        shall be made in accordance with regulations prescribed by the 
        Director.
    ``(c) Qualifications for Appointment.--The head of an agency may 
make an appointment under subsection (b) only if the individual being 
appointed--
            ``(1) has received a baccalaureate or graduate degree from 
        an institution of higher education;
            ``(2) applies for the position--
                    ``(A) not later than 2 years after the date on 
                which the individual being appointed received the 
                degree described in paragraph (1); or
                    ``(B) in the case of an individual who has 
                completed a period of not less than 4 years of 
                obligated service in a uniformed service, not later 
                than 2 years after the date of the discharge or release 
                of the individual from that service; and
            ``(3) meets each minimum qualification standard prescribed 
        by the Director for the position to which the individual is 
        being appointed.
    ``(d) Public Notice and Advertising.--
            ``(1) In general.--The head of an agency making an 
        appointment under subsection (b) shall publicly advertise 
        positions under this section.
            ``(2) Requirements.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        head of an agency shall--
                    ``(A) adhere to merit system principles;
                    ``(B) advertise positions in a manner that provides 
                for diverse and qualified applicants; and
                    ``(C) ensure potential applicants have appropriate 
                information relevant to the positions available.
    ``(e) Limitation on Appointments.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        total number of employees that the head of an agency may 
        appoint under this section during a fiscal year may not exceed 
        the number equal to 15 percent of the number of individuals 
        that the agency head appointed during the previous fiscal year 
        to a position in the competitive service classified in a 
        professional or administrative occupational category, at the 
        GS-11 level, or an equivalent level, or below, under a 
        competitive examining procedure.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--Under a regulation prescribed under 
        subsection (f), the Director may establish a lower limit on the 
        number of individuals that may be appointed under paragraph (1) 
        of this subsection during a fiscal year based on any factor the 
        Director considers appropriate.
    ``(f) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Director shall issue interim 
regulations, with an opportunity for comment, for the administration of 
this section.
    ``(g) Reporting.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than September 30 of each of 
        the first 3 fiscal years beginning after the date of enactment 
        of this section, the head of an agency that makes an 
        appointment under this section shall submit a report to--
                    ``(A) Congress that assesses the impact of the use 
                of the authority provided under this section during the 
                fiscal year in which the report is submitted; and
                    ``(B) the Director that contains data that the 
                Director considers necessary for the Director to assess 
                the impact and effectiveness of the authority described 
                in subparagraph (A).
            ``(2) Content.--The head of an agency shall include in each 
        report under paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) the total number of individuals appointed by 
                the agency under this section, as well as the number of 
                such individuals who are--
                            ``(i) minorities or members of other 
                        underrepresented groups; or
                            ``(ii) veterans;
                    ``(B) recruitment sources;
                    ``(C) the total number of individuals appointed by 
                the agency during the applicable fiscal year to a 
                position in the competitive service classified in a 
                professional or administrative occupational category at 
                the GS-11 level, or an equivalent level, or below; and
                    ``(D) any additional data specified by the 
                Director.
    ``(h) Special Provision Regarding the Department of Defense.--
            ``(1) Authority.--Nothing in this section shall preclude 
        the Secretary of Defense from exercising any authority to 
        appoint a recent graduate under section 1106 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. note 
        prec. 1580), or any applicable successor statute.
            ``(2) Regulations.--Any regulations prescribed by the 
        Director for the administration of this section shall not apply 
        to the Department of Defense during the period ending on the 
        date on which the appointment authority of the Secretary of 
        Defense under section 1106 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. note prec. 
        1580), or any applicable successor statute, terminates.
``Sec. 3116. Expedited hiring authority for post-secondary students; 
              competitive service
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Director.--The term `Director' means the Director of 
        the Office of Personnel Management.
            ``(2) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        `institution of higher education' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            ``(3) Student.--The term `student' means an individual 
        enrolled or accepted for enrollment in an institution of higher 
        education who is pursuing a baccalaureate or graduate degree on 
        at least a part-time basis as determined by the institution of 
        higher education.
    ``(b) Appointment.--
            ``(1) In general.--The head of an agency may make a time-
        limited appointment of a student, without regard to any 
        provision of sections 3309 through 3319 and 3330, to a position 
        in the competitive service at the GS-11 level, or an equivalent 
        level, or below for which the student is qualified.
            ``(2) Restrictions.--An appointment under paragraph (1) 
        shall be made in accordance with regulations prescribed by the 
        Director.
    ``(c) Public Notice.--
            ``(1) In general.--The head of an agency making an 
        appointment under subsection (b) shall publicly advertise 
        positions available under this section.
            ``(2) Requirements.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        head of an agency shall--
                    ``(A) adhere to merit system principles;
                    ``(B) advertise positions in a manner that provides 
                for diverse and qualified applicants; and
                    ``(C) ensure potential applicants have appropriate 
                information relevant to the positions available.
    ``(d) Limitation on Appointments.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        total number of students that the head of an agency may appoint 
        under this section during a fiscal year may not exceed the 
        number equal to 15 percent of the number of students that the 
        agency head appointed during the previous fiscal year to a 
        position in the competitive service at the GS-11 level, or an 
        equivalent level, or below.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--Under a regulation prescribed under 
        subsection (g), the Director may establish a lower limit on the 
        number of students that may be appointed under paragraph (1) of 
        this subsection during a fiscal year based on any factor the 
        Director considers appropriate.
    ``(e) Conversion.--The head of an agency may, without regard to any 
provision of chapter 33 or any other provision of law relating to the 
examination, certification, and appointment of individuals in the 
competitive service, convert a student serving in an appointment under 
subsection (b) to a permanent appointment in the competitive service 
within the agency without further competition if the student--
            ``(1) has completed the course of study leading to the 
        baccalaureate or graduate degree;
            ``(2) has completed not less than 640 hours of current 
        continuous employment in an appointment under subsection (b); 
        and
            ``(3) meets the qualification standards for the position to 
        which the student will be converted.
    ``(f) Termination.--The head of an agency shall, without regard to 
any provision of chapter 35 or 75, terminate the appointment of a 
student appointed under subsection (b) upon completion of the 
designated academic course of study unless the student is selected for 
conversion under subsection (e).
    ``(g) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Director shall issue interim 
regulations, with an opportunity for comment, for the administration of 
this section.
    ``(h) Reporting.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than September 30 of each of 
        the first 3 fiscal years beginning after the date of enactment 
        of this section, the head of an agency that makes an 
        appointment under this section shall submit a report to--
                    ``(A) Congress that assesses the impact of the use 
                of the authority provided under this section during the 
                fiscal year in which the report is submitted; and
                    ``(B) the Director that contains data that the 
                Director considers necessary for the Director to assess 
                the impact and effectiveness of the authority described 
                in subparagraph (A).
            ``(2) Content.--The head of an agency shall include in each 
        report under paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) the total number of individuals appointed by 
                the agency under this section, as well as the number of 
                such individuals who are--
                            ``(i) minorities or members of other 
                        underrepresented groups; or
                            ``(ii) veterans;
                    ``(B) recruitment sources;
                    ``(C) the total number of individuals appointed by 
                the agency during the applicable fiscal year to a 
                position in the competitive service at the GS-11 level, 
                or an equivalent level, or below; and
                    ``(D) any additional data specified by the 
                Director.
    ``(i) Special Provision Regarding the Department of Defense.--
            ``(1) Authority.--Nothing in this section shall preclude 
        the Secretary of Defense from exercising any authority to 
        appoint a post-secondary student under section 1106 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (10 
        U.S.C. note prec. 1580), or any applicable successor statute.
            ``(2) Regulations.--Any regulations prescribed by the 
        Director for the administration of this section shall not apply 
        to the Department of Defense during the period ending on the 
        date on which the appointment authority of the Secretary of 
        Defense under section 1106 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. note prec. 
        1580), or any applicable successor statute, terminates.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections for 
subchapter I of chapter 31 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following:

``3115. Expedited hiring authority for college graduates; competitive 
                            service.
``3116. Expedited hiring authority for post-secondary students; 
                            competitive service.''.

SEC. 1123. INCREASE IN MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF VOLUNTARY SEPARATION INCENTIVE 
              PAY AUTHORIZED FOR CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES.

    (a) In General.--Section 3523 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(3)(B), by striking ``$25,000'' and 
        inserting ``$40,000 (as adjusted in accordance with subsection 
        (c))''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c)(1) On March 1 each year, the dollar amount specified in 
subsection (b)(3)(B) shall be adjusted by the amount determined by the 
Secretary of Labor to represent the percentage increase, if any, 
between the Consumer Price Index (all items; United States city 
average) published for December of the preceding year and that price 
index published for the December of the year before the preceding year.
    ``(2) A percentage increase under paragraph (1) shall be adjusted 
to the nearest one-tenth of one percent, and an amount determined under 
paragraph (1) shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $1,000 (or, 
if midway between multiples of $1,000, to the next higher multiple of 
$1,000).''.
    (b) Department of Defense Employees.--Section 9902(f)(5) of such 
title is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking ``$25,000'' and 
        inserting ``an amount determined by the Secretary, not to 
        exceed $40,000 (as adjusted under subparagraph (D)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(D)(i) On March 1 each year, the dollar amount specified in 
subparagraph (A)(ii) shall be adjusted by the amount determined by the 
Secretary of Labor to represent the percentage increase, if any, 
between the Consumer Price Index (all items; United States city 
average) published for December of the preceding year and that price 
index published for the December of the year before the preceding year.
    ``(ii) A percentage increase under clause (i) shall be adjusted to 
the nearest one-tenth of one percent, and an amount determined under 
clause (i) shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $1,000 (or, if 
midway between multiples of $1,000, to the next higher multiple of 
$1,000).''.

SEC. 1124. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO GRANT 
              ALLOWANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES TO CIVILIAN 
              PERSONNEL ON OFFICIAL DUTY IN A COMBAT ZONE.

    Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane 
Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section 
1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4616) and most recently 
amended by section 1108 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91), is further amended by striking 
``2019'' and inserting ``2020''.

SEC. 1125. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL LIMITATION 
              ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE LIMITATION ON PAY FOR 
              FEDERAL CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS.

    Subsection (a) of section 1101 of the Duncan Hunter National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 
Stat. 4615), as most recently amended by section 1105 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91), is 
further amended by striking ``through 2018'' and inserting ``through 
2019''.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

SEC. 1201. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR USE OF ADVISORS AND TRAINERS 
              FOR TRAINING OF PERSONNEL OF FOREIGN MINISTRIES WITH 
              SECURITY MISSIONS UNDER DEFENSE INSTITUTION CAPACITY 
              BUILDING AUTHORITIES.

    Section 332(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``assign civilian 
        employees of the Department of Defense and members of the armed 
        forces as advisors and trainers'' and inserting ``provide 
        advisors or trainers''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)(B)--
                    (A) by striking ``assigned'' each place it appears 
                (other than the last place) and inserting ``provided'';
                    (B) by striking ``assigned advisor or trainer'' and 
                inserting ``advisor or trainer so provided''; and
                    (C) by striking ``each assignment'' and inserting 
                ``each provision of such an advisor or trainer''.

SEC. 1202. MODIFICATION TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STATE PARTNERSHIP 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 341(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``assistance'' after ``any''.

SEC. 1203. EXPANSION OF REGIONAL DEFENSE COMBATING TERRORISM FELLOWSHIP 
              PROGRAM TO INCLUDE IRREGULAR WARFARE.

    (a) In General.--Section 345 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (c) and (d), respectively;
            (2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following 
        new subsections (a) and (b):
    ``(a) Program Authorized.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a 
        program under which the Secretary may pay any costs associated 
        with the education and training of foreign military officers, 
        ministry of defense officials, or security officials at 
        military or civilian educational institutions, regional 
        centers, conferences, seminars, or other training programs 
        conducted for purposes of regional defense in connection with 
        either of the following:
                    ``(A) Combating terrorism.
                    ``(B) Irregular warfare.
            ``(2) Covered costs.--Costs for which payment may be made 
        under this section include the costs of transportation and 
        travel and subsistence costs.
            ``(3) Designation.--The program authorized by this section 
        shall be known as the `Regional Defense Combating Terrorism and 
        Irregular Warfare Fellowship Program'.
    ``(b) Regulations.--
            ``(1) In general.--The program authorized by subsection (a) 
        shall be carried out under regulations prescribed by the 
        Secretary of Defense.
            ``(2) Elements.--The regulations shall ensure that--
                    ``(A) the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
                State--
                            ``(i) jointly develop and plan activities 
                        under the program that--
                                    ``(I) advance United States 
                                security cooperation objectives; and
                                    ``(II) support theater security 
                                cooperation planning of the combatant 
                                commands; and
                            ``(ii) coordinate on the implementation of 
                        activities under the program;
                    ``(B) each of the Secretary of Defense and the 
                Secretary of State designates an individual at the 
                lowest appropriate level of the Department of Defense 
                or the Department of State, as applicable, who shall be 
                responsible for program coordination; and
                    ``(C) to the extent practicable, activities under 
                the program are appropriately coordinated with, and do 
                not duplicate or conflict with, activities under 
                International Military Education and Training (IMET) 
                authorities.
            ``(3) Submittal to congress.--Upon any update of the 
        regulations, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a copy of the regulations as so updated, 
        together with a description of the update.''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3) of subsection (d), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1) of this subsection, by striking ``in the global 
        war on terrorism''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 345. Regional Defense Combating Terrorism and Irregular Warfare 
              Fellowship Program''.
            (2) Table of sections amendment.--The table of sections at 
        the beginning of subchapter V of chapter 16 of such title is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 345 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``345. Regional Defense Combating Terrorism and Irregular Warfare 
                            Fellowship Program.''.

SEC. 1204. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT BORDER 
              SECURITY OPERATIONS OF CERTAIN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

    (a) Expansion of Authority.--Paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of 
section 1226 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of State, is authorized to provide 
        support on a reimbursement basis as follows:
                    ``(A) To the Government of Jordan for purposes of 
                supporting and enhancing efforts of the armed forces of 
                Jordan to increase security and sustain increased 
                security along the border of Jordan with Syria and 
                Iraq.
                    ``(B) To the Government of Lebanon for purposes of 
                supporting and enhancing efforts of the armed forces of 
                Lebanon to increase security and sustain increased 
                security along the border of Lebanon with Syria.
                    ``(C) To the Government of Egypt for purposes of 
                supporting and enhancing efforts of the armed forces of 
                Egypt to increase security and sustain increased 
                security along the border of Egypt with Libya.
                    ``(D) To the Government of Tunisia for purposes of 
                supporting and enhancing efforts of the armed forces of 
                Tunisia to increase security and sustain increased 
                security along the border of Tunisia with Libya.
                    ``(E) To the Government of Oman for purposes of 
                supporting and enhancing efforts of the armed forces of 
                Oman to increase security and sustain increased 
                security along the border of Oman with Yemen.
                    ``(F) To the Government of Pakistan for purposes of 
                supporting and enhancing efforts of the armed forces of 
                Pakistan to increase security and sustain increased 
                security along the border of Pakistan with 
                Afghanistan.''.
    (b) Certification.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(d) Notice and Certification Before Exercise.--Not later than 15 
days before providing support under the authority of subsection (a) to 
a country that has not previously received such support, the Secretary 
of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit 
to the specified congressional committees a report that--
            ``(1) sets forth a full description of the support to be 
        provided, including--
                    ``(A) the purpose of such support;
                    ``(B) the amount of support to be provided; and
                    ``(C) the anticipated duration of the provision of 
                such support; and
            ``(2) includes a certification that--
                    ``(A) the recipient country has taken demonstrable 
                steps to increase security along the border specified 
                for such country in subsection (a); and
                    ``(B) the provision of such support is in the 
                interest of United States national security.''.
    (c) Limitation on Reimbursement of Pakistan.--Such section is 
further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections 
        (g) and (h), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Limitation on Reimbursement of Pakistan Pending 
Certification.--No amount of reimbursement support under subsection 
(a)(1)(F) is authorized to be disbursed to the Government of Pakistan 
unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to the congressional defense 
committees that the following conditions are met:
            ``(1) The military and security operations of Pakistan 
        pertaining to border security and ancillary activities for 
        which reimbursement is sought have been coordinated with United 
        States military representatives in advance of the execution of 
        such operations and activities.
            ``(2) The goals and desired outcomes of each such operation 
        or activity have been established and agreed upon in advance by 
        the United States and Pakistan.
            ``(3) A process exists to verify the achievement of the 
        goals and desired outcomes established in accordance with 
        paragraph (2).
            ``(4) The Government of Pakistan is making an effort to 
        actively coordinate with the Government of Afghanistan on 
        issues relating to border security on the Afghanistan-Pakistan 
        border.''.
    (d) Quarterly Reports.--Such section is further amended by 
inserting after subsection (e), as so designated by subsection (c) of 
this section, the following new subsection (f):
    ``(f) Quarterly Reports.--Not later than 30 days after the end of 
each fiscal quarter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
specified congressional committees a report on reimbursements pursuant 
to subsection (a) during the preceding fiscal quarter that includes--
            ``(1) an identification of each country reimbursed;
            ``(2) the date of each reimbursement;
            ``(3) a description of any partner nation border security 
        efforts for which reimbursement was provided;
            ``(4) an assessment of the value of partner nation border 
        security efforts for which reimbursement was provided;
            ``(5) the total amounts of reimbursement provided to each 
        partner nation in the preceding four fiscal quarters; and
            ``(6) such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.''.
    (e) Extension.--Subsection (h) of such section, as so redesignated, 
is amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 
31, 2021''.

SEC. 1205. LEGAL AND POLICY REVIEW OF ADVISE, ASSIST, AND ACCOMPANY 
              MISSIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy shall, 
in coordination with the General Counsel of the Department of Defense 
and the commanders of appropriate combatant commands, submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on a review, conducted for 
purposes of the report, of the legal and policy frameworks associated 
with advise, assist, and accompany missions by United States military 
personnel.
    (b) Elements.--The report and review required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) An analysis of the risks and benefits of United States 
        military personnel conducting advise, assist, and accompany 
        missions with foreign partner forces, and an assessment of the 
        relation of such risks and benefits to United States security 
        objectives.
            (2) A review of execute orders in order to ensure that such 
        orders comply with United States law for the employment of 
        United States military personnel and capabilities to advise, 
        assist, and accompany foreign partner forces.
            (3) An assessment whether the legal and policy frameworks 
        applicable to advise, assist, and accompany missions by United 
        States military personnel are adequately communicated to and 
        understood at all levels of operational command.
            (4) An assessment whether approvals related to advise, 
        assist, and accompany missions are taken at the appropriate 
        level of command.
            (5) A definition, and policy guidance, for the appropriate 
        use in execute orders of each of the following:
                    (A) Advise
                    (B) Assist.
                    (C) Accompany.
                    (D) Collective self defense.
                    (E) Last point of cover and conceal.
            (6) Any other matters the Under Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 1206. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS RELATING TO DEFENSE SECURITY 
              COOPERATION STATUTORY REORGANIZATION.

    (a) Chapter References.--The following provisions of law are 
amended by striking ``chapter 15'' and inserting ``chapter 13'':
            (1) Section 886(a)(5) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
        (6 U.S.C. 466(a)(5)).
            (2) Section 332(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
        Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1982(a)(1)).
            (3) Section 101(a)(13)(B) of title 10, United States Code.
            (4) Section 115(i)(6) of title 10, United States Code.
            (5) Section 12304(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code.
            (6) Section 484C(c)(3)(C)(v)) of the Higher Education Act 
        of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1091c(c)(3)(C)(v)).
    (b) Section References.--
            (1) Title 10, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in section 386(c)(1), by striking ``Sections 
                311, 321, 331, 332, 333,'' and inserting ``Sections 
                246, 251, 252, 253, 321,''; and
                    (B) in section 10541(b)(9), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``sections 331, 332, 
                333,'' and inserting ``sections 251, 252, 253,''.
            (2) Section 484C(c)(3)(C)(i) of the Higher Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 1091c(c)(3)(C)(i)) is amended by striking 
        ``section 331, 332,'' and inserting ``section 251, 252,''.

SEC. 1207. NAVAL SMALL CRAFT INSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL TRAINING SCHOOL.

    (a) School Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter V of chapter 16 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new section:
``Sec. 351. Naval Small Craft Instruction and Technical Training School
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may operate an 
education and training facility known as the `Naval Small Craft 
Instruction and Technical Training School' (in this section referred to 
as the `School').
    ``(b) Designation of Executive Agent.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall designate the Secretary of a military department as the 
Department of Defense executive agent for carrying out the 
responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense under this section.
    ``(c) Purpose.--The purpose of the School shall be to provide to 
the military and other security forces of one or more friendly foreign 
countries education and training to increase professionalism, 
readiness, and respect for human rights through--
            ``(1) formal courses of instruction; and
            ``(2) mobile training teams for--
                    ``(A) the operation, employment, maintenance, and 
                logistics of specialized equipment;
                    ``(B) participation in--
                            ``(i) joint exercises; or
                            ``(ii) coalition or international military 
                        operations; and
                    ``(C) improved interoperability between--
                            ``(i) the armed forces; and
                            ``(ii) the military and other security 
                        forces of the one or more friendly foreign 
                        countries.
    ``(d) Personnel Eligible to Receive Education and Training.--
            ``(1) Limitation.--The Secretary of Defense may not provide 
        education or training at the School to any personnel of a 
        country that is prohibited from receiving such education or 
        training under any other provision of law.
            ``(2) Consultation in selection.--The Secretary of Defense 
        shall consult with the Secretary of State in the selection of 
        foreign personnel to be provided education and training at the 
        School.
    ``(e) Fixed Costs.--The fixed costs of operation and maintenance of 
the School in a fiscal year may be paid from amounts made available for 
such fiscal year for operation and maintenance of the Department of 
Defense.
    ``(f) Annual Report.--Not later than March 15 each year, the 
Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a detailed 
report on the activities and operating costs of the School during the 
preceding fiscal year.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of subchapter V of chapter 16 of such title is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``351. Naval Small Craft Instruction and Technical Training School.''.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that sets forth the 
following:
            (1) The budget requirements for the operation and 
        sustainment of the Naval Small Craft Instruction and Technical 
        Training School authorized by section 351 of title 10, United 
        States Code (as added by subsection (a)), during the period of 
        the future-years defense program submitted to Congress in 
        fiscal year 2019, including--
                    (A) a description of the budget requirements 
                relating to the School for--
                            (i) Major Force Program-2; and
                            (ii) Major Force Program-11; and
                    (B) an identification of any other source of 
                funding for the School.
            (2) The anticipated requirements for facilities for the 
        School.
            (3) An identification of the Secretary of a military 
        department designated by the Secretary of Defense as executive 
        agent for the School under subsection (b) of such section.
            (4) The anticipated military construction and facilities 
        renovation requirements for the School during such period.
            (5) Any other matter relating to the School that the 
        Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.
    (c) Limitation on Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in section 351 of title 10, United 
        States Code (as so added), may be construed as authorizing the 
        use of funds appropriated for the Department of Defense for any 
        purpose described in paragraph (2) unless specifically 
        authorized by an Act of Congress other than that section or 
        this Act.
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes described in this paragraph are 
        the following:
                    (A) The operation of a facility other than the 
                Naval Small Craft Instruction and Technical Training 
                School that is in operation as of the date of the 
                enactment of this Act for the provision of education 
                and training authorized to be provided by the School.
                    (B) The construction or expansion of any facility 
                of the School.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

SEC. 1211. AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND.

    (a) Continuation of Prior Authorities and Notice and Reporting 
Requirements.--Funds available to the Department of Defense for the 
Afghanistan Security Forces Fund for fiscal year 2019 shall be subject 
to the conditions contained in--
            (1) subsections (b) through (f) of section 1513 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public 
        Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 428), as most recently amended by 
        section 1521(d)(2)(A) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2577); and
            (2) section 1521(d)(1) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Section 1513(b)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 is amended by striking 
``security forces of Afghanistan'' and inserting ``security forces of 
the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior of the 
Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan''.
    (c) Equipment Disposition.--
            (1) Acceptance of certain equipment.--Subject to paragraph 
        (2), the Secretary of Defense may accept equipment that is 
        procured using amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
        Afghanistan Security Forces Fund by this Act and is intended 
        for transfer to the security forces of Afghanistan, but is not 
        accepted by such security forces.
            (2) Conditions on acceptance of equipment.--Before 
        accepting any equipment under the authority provided by 
        paragraph (1), the Commander of United States forces in 
        Afghanistan shall make a determination that such equipment was 
        procured for the purpose of meeting requirements of the 
        security forces of Afghanistan, as agreed to by both the 
        Government of Afghanistan and the Government of the United 
        States, but is no longer required by such security forces or 
        was damaged before transfer to such security forces.
            (3) Elements of determination.--In making a determination 
        under paragraph (2) regarding equipment, the Commander of 
        United States forces in Afghanistan shall consider alternatives 
        to the acceptance of such equipment by the Secretary. An 
        explanation of each determination, including the basis for the 
        determination and the alternatives considered, shall be 
        included in the relevant quarterly report required under 
        paragraph (5).
            (4) Treatment as department of defense stocks.--Equipment 
        accepted under the authority provided by paragraph (1) may be 
        treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon 
        notification to the congressional defense committees of such 
        treatment.
            (5) Quarterly reports on equipment disposition.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act and every 90-day 
                period thereafter during which the authority provided 
                by paragraph (1) is exercised, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
                describing the equipment accepted during the period 
                covered by such report under the following:
                            (i) This subsection.
                            (ii) Section 1521(b) of the National 
                        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
                        (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2575).
                            (iii) Section 1531(b) of the National 
                        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
                        (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1088).
                            (iv) Section 1532(b) of the Carl Levin and 
                        Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
                        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public 
                        Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3613).
                            (v) Section 1531(d) of the National Defense 
                        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public 
                        Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 938; 10 U.S.C. 2302 
                        note).
                    (B) Elements.--Each report under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include a list of all equipment that was accepted 
                during the period covered by such report and treated as 
                stocks of the Department of Defense and copies of the 
                determinations made under paragraph (2), as required by 
                paragraph (3).
    (d) Security of Afghan Women.--
            (1) In general.--Of the funds available to the Department 
        of Defense for the Afghan Security Forces Fund for fiscal year 
        2019, it is the goal that $25,000,000, but in no event less 
        than $10,000,000, shall be used for--
                    (A) the recruitment, integration, retention, 
                training, and treatment of women in the Afghan National 
                Defense and Security Forces; and
                    (B) the recruitment, training, and contracting of 
                female security personnel for future elections.
            (2) Types of programs and activities.--Such programs and 
        activities may include--
                    (A) efforts to recruit women into the Afghan 
                National Defense and Security Forces, including the 
                special operations forces;
                    (B) programs and activities of the Afghan Ministry 
                of Defense Directorate of Human Rights and Gender 
                Integration and the Afghan Ministry of Interior Office 
                of Human Rights, Gender and Child Rights;
                    (C) development and dissemination of gender and 
                human rights educational and training materials and 
                programs within the Afghan Ministry of Defense and the 
                Afghan Ministry of Interior;
                    (D) efforts to address harassment and violence 
                against women within the Afghan National Defense and 
                Security Forces;
                    (E) improvements to infrastructure that address the 
                requirements of women serving in the Afghan National 
                Defense and Security Forces, including appropriate 
                equipment for female security and police forces, and 
                transportation for policewomen to their station;
                    (F) support for Afghanistan National Police Family 
                Response Units; and
                    (G) security provisions for high-profile female 
                police and military officers.
    (e) Assessment of Afghanistan Progress on Security Objectives.--
            (1) Assessment required.--Not later than May 1, 2019, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretary 
        of State, submit to the Committee on Armed Services and the 
        Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate an assessment describing the 
        progress of the Government of the Islamic Republic of 
        Afghanistan toward meeting shared security objectives. In 
        conducting such assessment, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        consider each of the following:
                    (A) The extent to which the Government of 
                Afghanistan has taken steps toward increased 
                accountability and reducing corruption within the 
                Ministries of Defense and Interior.
                    (B) The extent to which the capability and capacity 
                of the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces have 
                improved as a result of Afghanistan Security Forces 
                Fund investment, including through training.
                    (C) The extent to which the Afghan National Defense 
                and Security Forces have been able to increase pressure 
                on the Taliban, al-Qaeda, the Haqqani network, and 
                other terrorist organizations, including by re-taking 
                territory, defending territory, and disrupting attacks.
                    (D) Whether or not the Government of Afghanistan is 
                ensuring that supplies, equipment, and weaponry 
                supplied by the United States are appropriately 
                distributed to security forces charged with fighting 
                the Taliban and other terrorist organizations.
                    (E) The extent to which the Government of 
                Afghanistan has designated the appropriate staff, 
                prioritized the development of relevant processes, and 
                provided or requested the allocation of resources 
                necessary to support a peace and reconciliation process 
                in Afghanistan.
                    (F) Such other factors as the Secretaries consider 
                appropriate.
            (2) Withholding of assistance for insufficient progress.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Secretary of Defense 
                determines, in coordination with the Secretary of 
                State, pursuant to the assessment under paragraph (1) 
                that the Government of Afghanistan has made 
                insufficient progress, the Secretary of Defense may 
                withhold assistance for the Afghan National Defense and 
                Security Forces until such time as the Secretary 
                determines sufficient progress has been made.
                    (B) Notice to congress.--If the Secretary of 
                Defense withholds assistance under subparagraph (A), 
                the Secretary shall, in coordination with the Secretary 
                of State, provide notice to Congress not later than 30 
                days after making the decision to withhold such 
                assistance.

SEC. 1212. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF 
              CERTAIN COALITION NATIONS FOR SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UNITED 
              STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
Stat. 393), as most recently amended by section 1212 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91), is 
further amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``October 1, 2017, and ending on December 31, 2018'' and 
        inserting ``October 1, 2018, and ending on December 31, 2019''; 
        and
            (2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Pakistan for certain activities meant to enhance the 
        security situation in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region 
        pursuant to section 1226 of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note), as amended by 
        the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2019.''.
    (b) Modification to Limitations.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the first sentence--
                            (i) by striking ``October 1, 2017, and 
                        ending on December 31, 2018'' and inserting 
                        ``October 1, 2018, and ending on December 31, 
                        2019''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``$900,000,000'' and 
                        inserting ``$350,000,000''; and
                    (B) by striking the second sentence; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (3).
    (c) Repeal of Provision Relating to Reimbursement to Pakistan for 
Security Enhancement Activities.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (e); and
            (2) by redesignating subsections (f) through (h) as 
        subsections (e) through (g), respectively.
    (d) Notice to Congress.--Paragraph (1) of subsection (e) of such 
section, as redesignated by subsection (c) of this section, is amended 
by striking the second sentence.

SEC. 1213. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER DEFENSE ARTICLES AND 
              PROVIDE DEFENSE SERVICES TO THE MILITARY AND SECURITY 
              FORCES OF AFGHANISTAN.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (h) of section 1222 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
Stat. 1992), as most recently amended by section 1211 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 115-91), is 
further amended by striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2019''.
    (b) Excess Defense Articles.--Subsection (i)(2) of such section, as 
so amended, is further amended by striking ``December 31, 2018'' each 
place it appears and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.

SEC. 1214. MODIFICATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL IMMIGRANT 
              VISAS FOR AFGHAN ALLIES PROGRAM.

    Section 602 of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 
1101 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (10);
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (11) through (16) 
                as paragraphs (10) through (15), respectively;
                    (C) in paragraph (11)(A), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``the National Defense Authorization Act for 
                Fiscal Year 2014'' and inserting ``the John S. McCain 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
                2019'';
                    (D) in paragraph (12), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``paragraph (12)(B)'' and inserting 
                ``paragraph (11)(B)''; and
                    (E) in paragraph (13), as so redesignated, in the 
                matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``a 
                report to the'' and all that follows through ``House of 
                Representatives'' and inserting ``a report to the 
                appropriate committees of Congress'';
            (2) by striking subsection (c); and
            (3) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

SEC. 1221. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE 
              ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1236 of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3558), as most recently 
amended by section 1222 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91), is further amended by striking 
``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
    (b) Funding.--Subsection (g) of such section 1236, as most recently 
so amended, is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``for the Department of Defense for 
        Overseas Contingency Operations for fiscal year 2018'' and 
        inserting ``for the Department of Defense for Overseas 
        Contingency Operations for fiscal year 2019''; and
            (2) by striking ``$1,269,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$850,000,000''.
    (c) Limitation of Use of Fiscal Year 2019 Funds.--Of the amounts 
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 by this Act for 
activities under the authority in section 1236 of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015, as amended by this section, not more than $450,000,000 may 
be obligated or expended for such activities until the date on which 
the Secretary of Defense has submitted to the congressional defense 
committees each of the following:
            (1) The report on the United States strategy in Iraq 
        required by the joint explanatory statement of the committee of 
        the conference accompanying Conference Report 115-404.
            (2) A report setting forth the following:
                    (A) An explanation of the purpose of a continuing 
                United States military presence in Iraq, including--
                            (i) an explanation of the national security 
                        objectives of the United States with respect to 
                        Iraq;
                            (ii) a detailed description of--
                                    (I) the size of a continuing United 
                                States military presence in Iraq; and
                                    (II) the roles and missions 
                                associated with a continuing United 
                                States military presence in Iraq; and
                            (iii) a delineation of the responsibilities 
                        in connection with a continuing United States 
                        military presence in Iraq of--
                                    (I) the Combined Joint Task Force 
                                Operation Inherent Resolve (or a 
                                successor task force);
                                    (II) the Office of Security 
                                Cooperation in Iraq; and
                                    (III) other United States embassy-
                                based military personnel.
                    (B) An identification of the specific units of the 
                Iraqi Security Forces to receive training and equipment 
                or other support in fiscal year 2019.
                    (C) A plan for ensuring that any vehicles and 
                equipment provided to the Iraqi Security Forces 
                pursuant to that authority are maintained in subsequent 
                fiscal years using funds of Iraq.
                    (D) An estimate, by fiscal year, of the funding 
                anticipated to be required for support of the Iraqi 
                Security Forces pursuant to that authority during the 
                five fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2020.
                    (E) A detailed plan for the obligation and 
                expenditure of the funds requested for fiscal year 2019 
                for the Department of Defense for Operational 
                Sustainment of the Iraqi Security Forces.
                    (F) A plan for the transition to the Government of 
                Iraq of responsibility for funding for Operational 
                Sustainment of the Iraqi Security Forces for fiscal 
                years after fiscal year 2019.
                    (G) A description of any actions carried out under 
                this paragraph.

SEC. 1222. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE 
              ASSISTANCE TO THE VETTED SYRIAN OPPOSITION.

    (a) Extension.--Section 1209(a) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3559), as most recently amended by 
section 1221(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2485), is further amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Funds in General.--
            (1) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
        appropriated for fiscal year 2019 for the Department of Defense 
        may be obligated or expended for activities under the authority 
        in section 1209 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, as 
        amended by subsection (a), until the later of the following:
                    (A) The date on which the President submits the 
                report on United States strategy in Syria required by 
                section 1221 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
                for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91).
                    (B) The date that is 30 days after the date on 
                which the Secretary of Defense submits the report 
                described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report setting forth the 
        following:
                    (A) A detailed description of the internal security 
                forces of the vetted Syrian opposition to be trained 
                and equipped under such authority, including a 
                description of their geographic locations, demographic 
                profiles, political affiliations, current capabilities, 
                and relation to the objectives under the authority in 
                section 1209 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
                McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
                Year 2015, as amended by subsection (a).
                    (B) A detailed description of planned capabilities, 
                including categories of equipment, intended to be 
                provided to the elements of the vetted Syrian 
                opposition under such authority.
                    (C) A description of the planned level of 
                engagement by United States forces with the elements of 
                the vetted Syrian opposition after such elements of the 
                vetted Syrian opposition have been trained and equipped 
                under such authority, including the oversight of 
                equipment provided under such authority and the 
                activities conducted by such vetted Syrian opposition 
                forces.
                    (D) An explanation of the processes and mechanisms 
                for local commanders of the vetted Syrian opposition to 
                exercise command and control of the elements of the 
                vetted Syrian opposition after such elements of the 
                vetted Syrian opposition have been trained and equipped 
                under such authority.
                    (E) An explanation of complementary local 
                governance and other stabilization activities in areas 
                in which elements of the local internal security forces 
                trained and equipped under such authority will be 
                operating and the relation of such local governance and 
                other stabilization activities to the oversight of such 
                security forces.
    (c) Additional Limitations on Use of Funds During Fiscal Year 
2019.--
            (1) Certifications in connection with use of funds.--Not 
        later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, and every 120 days thereafter, the Secretary shall submit 
        to the congressional defense committees a written certification 
        on the following:
                    (A) Whether, during the 120-day period ending on 
                the date of the certification, demonstrable progress 
                was made--
                            (i) to retake control of territory in Syria 
                        from the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria 
                        (ISIS); or
                            (ii) to stabilize areas in Syria formerly 
                        held by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
                    (B) Whether, during such period, the vetted Syrian 
                opposition tasked with conducting local security 
                operations that United States forces are training and 
                equipping under the authority in section 1209 of the 
                Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, as 
                amended by subsection (a), were demographically 
                representative of the local communities and serve local 
                governance bodies that are similarly representative of 
                the local communities.
                    (C) Whether, during such period, the Department of 
                Defense took actions to mitigate any pause in offensive 
                operations against the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria 
                through the training, equipping, and assistance of the 
                vetted Syrian opposition.
                    (D) Whether, during such period, support provided 
                under the authority referred to in subparagraph (B) was 
                consistent with United States standards regarding 
                respect for human rights, rule of law, and support for 
                stable and equitable governance.
                    (E) Whether, during such period, members of the 
                vetted Syrian opposition receiving support under the 
                authority referred to in subparagraph (B) continued to 
                demonstrate respect for human rights and rule of law, 
                violations of human rights and rule of law by such 
                members were appropriately investigated, and the 
                individuals responsible for such violations were 
                appropriately held accountable.
            (2) Limitation.--If the Secretary does not make a 
        certification by the deadline for submittal required for the 
        certification under paragraph (1), or is unable in the 
        certification to certify each of the matters specified in that 
        paragraph, no support may be provided to the vetted Syrian 
        opposition under the authority in section 1209 of the Carl 
        Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, as amended by 
        subsection (a), during the period that--
                    (A) begins on the deadline for submittal of the 
                certification (if the certification is not made) or the 
                date of the certification (if the certification does 
                not certify each of the matters), as applicable; and
                    (B) ends on the date on which a certification is 
                submitted under paragraph (1) that certifies each of 
                the matters.

SEC. 1223. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT 
              OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE OFFICE OF SECURITY 
              COOPERATION IN IRAQ.

    (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (f)(1) of section 1215 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 
113 note) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 2018'' and inserting 
``fiscal year 2019''.
    (b) Amount Available.--
            (1) In general.--Such section is further amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c), by striking ``fiscal year 
                2018 may not exceed $42,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``fiscal year 2019 may not exceed $45,300,000''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``fiscal year 
                2018'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2019''.
            (2) Limitation of use of fiscal year 2019 funds pending 
        reports.--Of the amount available for fiscal year 2019 for 
        section 1215 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2012, as amended by this section, not more than an 
        amount equal to 25 percent of such amount may be obligated or 
        expended for the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq until 
        30 days after the later of--
                    (A) the date on which the report on the United 
                States strategy on Iraq required by the joint 
                explanatory statement of the committee of the 
                conference accompanying Conference Report 115-404 is 
                submitted to the congressional defense committees; and
                    (B) the date on which the report required under 
                subsection (c) is submitted to the appropriate 
                committees of Congress.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        cooperation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report on the Office of 
        Security Cooperation in Iraq.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of the enduring planned size and 
                missions of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq 
                after the cessation of major combat operations against 
                the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
                    (B) A description of the relationship between the 
                Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq and any planned 
                enduring presence of other United States forces in 
                Iraq.
                    (C) A detailed description of any activity to be 
                conducted by the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq 
                in fiscal year 2019.
                    (D) A plan and timeline for the normalization of 
                the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq to conform 
                to other offices of security cooperation, including the 
                transition of funding from the Department of Defense to 
                the Department of State by the beginning of fiscal year 
                2020.
                    (E) Such other matters with respect to the Office 
                of Security Cooperation in Iraq as the Secretary of 
                Defense and the Secretary of State consider 
                appropriate.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1224. SYRIA STUDY GROUP.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a working group to be 
known as the ``Syria Study Group'' (in this section referred to as the 
``Group'').
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Group is to examine and make 
recommendations on the military and diplomatic strategy of the United 
States with respect to the conflict in Syria.
    (c) Composition.--
            (1) Membership.--The Group shall be composed of 12 members, 
        who shall be appointed as follows:
                    (A) One member appointed by the chair of the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.
                    (B) One member appointed by the ranking minority 
                member of the Committee on Armed Services of the 
                Senate.
                    (C) One member appointed by the chair of the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
                    (D) One member appointed by the ranking minority 
                member of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate.
                    (E) One member appointed by the chair of the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
                    (F) One member appointed by the ranking minority 
                member of the Committee on Armed Services of the House 
                of Representatives.
                    (G) One member appointed by the chair of the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
                    (H) One member appointed by the ranking minority 
                member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives.
                    (I) One member appointed by the majority leader of 
                the Senate.
                    (J) One member appointed by the minority leader of 
                the Senate.
                    (K) One member appointed by the Speaker of the 
                House of Representatives.
                    (L) One member appointed by the minority leader of 
                the House of Representatives.
            (2) Co-chairs.--
                    (A) Of the members of the Group, one co-chair shall 
                be jointly designated by--
                            (i) the chairs of the Committee on Armed 
                        Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations 
                        of the Senate;
                            (ii) the chairs of the Committee on Armed 
                        Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
                        of the House of Representatives;
                            (iii) the majority leader of the Senate; 
                        and
                            (iv) the Speaker of the House of 
                        Representatives.
                    (B) Of the members of the Group, one co-chair shall 
                be jointly designated by--
                            (i) the ranking minority members of the 
                        Committee on Armed Services and the Committee 
                        on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
                            (ii) the ranking minority members of the 
                        Committee on Armed Services and the Committee 
                        on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                        Representatives;
                            (iii) the minority leader of the Senate; 
                        and
                            (iv) the minority leader of the House of 
                        Representatives.
            (3) Period of appointment.--A member shall be appointed for 
        the life of the Group.
            (4) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Group shall be filled in 
        the same manner as the original appointment.
    (d) Duties.--
            (1) Review.--The Group shall conduct a review on the 
        current United States military and diplomatic strategy with 
        respect to the conflict in Syria that includes a review of 
        current United States objectives in Syria and the desired end 
        state in Syria.
            (2) Assessment and recommendations.--The Group shall--
                    (A) conduct a comprehensive assessment of the 
                current situation in Syria, the impact of such 
                situation on neighboring countries, the resulting 
                regional and geopolitical threats to the United States, 
                and current military, diplomatic, and political efforts 
                to achieve a stable Syria; and
                    (B) develop recommendations on the military and 
                diplomatic strategy of the United States with respect 
                to the conflict in Syria.
    (e) Cooperation of United States Government.--
            (1) In general.--The Group shall receive the full and 
        timely cooperation of the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary 
        of State, and the Director of National Intelligence in 
        providing the Group with analyses, briefings, and other 
        information necessary for the discharge of the duties of the 
        Group under subsection (d).
            (2) Liaison.--The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
        State, and the Director of National Intelligence shall each 
        designate at least one officer or employee of the Department of 
        Defense, the Department of State, and the Office of the 
        Director of National Intelligence, respectively, to serve as a 
        liaison to the Group.
            (3) Facilitation.--The United States Institute of Peace 
        shall take appropriate actions to facilitate the Group in the 
        discharge of the duties of the Group under this section.
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Final report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than June 30, 2019, the 
                Group shall submit to the President, the Secretary of 
                Defense, the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, the 
                Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
                Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, the 
                majority and minority leaders of the Senate, the 
                Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the 
                minority leader of the House of Representatives a 
                report that sets forth the findings, conclusions, and 
                recommendations of the Group under this section.
                    (B) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include each of the following:
                            (i) An assessment of the current security, 
                        political, humanitarian, and economic 
                        situations in Syria.
                            (ii) An assessment of the current 
                        participation and objectives of the various 
                        external actors in Syria.
                            (iii) An assessment of the consequences of 
                        continued conflict in Syria.
                            (iv) Recommendations for a resolution to 
                        the conflict in Syria, including--
                                    (I) options for a gradual political 
                                transition to a post-Assad Syria; and
                                    (II) actions necessary for 
                                reconciliation.
                            (v) A roadmap for a United States and 
                        coalition strategy to reestablish security and 
                        governance in Syria, including recommendations 
                        for the synchronization of stabilization, 
                        development, counterterrorism, and 
                        reconstruction efforts.
                            (vi) Any other matter with respect to the 
                        conflict in Syria that the Group considers to 
                        be appropriate.
            (2) Interim report.--Not later than February 1, 2019, the 
        Group shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services and the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, the Committee on 
        Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
        House of Representatives, the majority and minority leaders of 
        the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and 
        the minority leader of the House of Representatives a report 
        that describes the status of the review and assessment under 
        subsection (d) and any interim recommendations developed by the 
        Group as of the date of the briefing.
            (3) Form of report.--The report submitted to Congress under 
        paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may 
        include a classified annex.
    (g) Termination.--The Group shall terminate on the date that is 180 
days after the date on which the Group submits the report required by 
subsection (f)(1).

SEC. 1225. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY POWER OF IRAN.

    Section 1245(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)(B), by inserting ``the Houthis,'' 
        after ``Hamas,''; and
            (2) in paragraph (7)--
                    (A) by inserting ``the Russian Federation,'' after 
                ``Pakistan,''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``trafficking or'' before 
                ``development''.

   Subtitle D--Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation

SEC. 1231. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON MILITARY COOPERATION BETWEEN THE 
              UNITED STATES AND THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1232 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 
Stat. 2488), as amended by section 1231 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91), is further 
amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking ``fiscal year 
2017 or 2018'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2017, 2018, or 2019''.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in subsection (a) shall be 
construed to limit bilateral military-to-military dialogue between the 
United States and the Russian Federation for the purpose of reducing 
the risk of conflict.''.

SEC. 1232. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING TO SOVEREIGNTY 
              OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION OVER CRIMEA.

    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2019 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to implement any 
activity that recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over 
Crimea.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, may waive the limitation in subsection (a) if the 
Secretary of Defense--
            (1) determines that the waiver is in the national security 
        interest of the United States; and
            (2) submits to the Committee on Armed Services and the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
        House of Representatives a notification of the waiver.

SEC. 1233. EXTENSION OF UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE.

    Section 1250 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1068), as most recently amended 
by section 1234 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91), is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``for fiscal year 
                2018 pursuant to subsection (f)(3)'' and inserting 
                ``for fiscal year 2019 pursuant to subsection (f)(4)''; 
                and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``fiscal year 
                2018'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2019'';
            (2) in subsection (f), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(4) For fiscal year 2019, $200,000,000.''; and
            (3) in subsection (h), by striking ``December 31, 2020'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.

SEC. 1234. SENSE OF SENATE ON RELOCATION OF JOINT INTELLIGENCE ANALYSIS 
              COMPLEX.

    It is the sense of the Senate that, in consideration of any future 
plans regarding the relocation of the Joint Intelligence Analysis 
Complex of the United States European Command, the Secretary of Defense 
should maintain its geographic location within the United Kingdom and 
its collocation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) 
Intelligence Fusion Center.

SEC. 1235. SENSE OF SENATE ON ENHANCING DETERRENCE AGAINST RUSSIAN 
              AGGRESSION IN EUROPE.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--To protect the national security of the 
United States, it is the policy of the United States to pursue an 
integrated approach to strengthening the defense of allies and partners 
in Europe as part of a broader, long-term strategy backed by all 
elements of United States national power to deter and, if necessary, 
defeat Russian aggression.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that in 
order to strengthen the defense of allies and partners in Europe, the 
Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State and 
in consultation with the commander of United States European Command, 
should--
            (1) prioritize the need for additional United States Army 
        forward presence in Europe, especially increased forward-
        stationed combat enablers to enhance United States Army 
        capability and capacity in areas such as--
                    (A) long-range fires;
                    (B) air and missile defense;
                    (C) combat engineering;
                    (D) logistics and sustainment;
                    (E) warfighting headquarters elements; and
                    (F) electronic warfare;
            (2) conduct a review of the balance of United States Army 
        presence in Europe between rotationally deployed and forward-
        stationed forces, including an examination of transitioning the 
        rotational presence of a United States Army armored brigade 
        combat team (ABCT) in Europe to a forward-stationed ABCT, with 
        consideration of--
                    (A) the opportunity to more effectively signal the 
                enduring commitment of the United States--
                            (i) to assure allies and partners in 
                        Europe; and
                            (ii) to deter Russian aggression;
                    (B) the significant recurring fiscal costs of 
                rotating heavy, equipment-intensive units;
                    (C) the family readiness impacts of lengthy heel-
                to-toe rotational deployments;
                    (D) the potential advantages of interoperability 
                and cultural proficiency that can be achieved by 
                forward-stationed forces that have knowledge of local 
                rules, regulations, culture, customs, geography, and 
                counterpart military units and officials;
                    (E) the potential tradeoffs between--
                            (i) the training readiness and high 
                        operational tempo of rotational units; and
                            (ii) the higher manning rates of forward-
                        stationed forces; and
                    (F) the benefits of National Training Center 
                rotations for rotationally deployed units as compared 
                to maximized use of United States Army training areas 
                in Europe, including the Joint Multinational Readiness 
                Center in Germany, by forward-stationed units in 
                Europe;
            (3) consider options for mitigating personnel impacts of 
        heel-to-toe rotations of United States forces in Europe, 
        including designation of Operation Atlantic Resolve as a named 
        operation;
            (4) examine the merit and feasibility of maintaining a 
        continuous and enduring presence of at least one United States 
        Army company in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania;
            (5) examine the merit and feasibility of increasing the 
        presence of United States special operations forces in Estonia, 
        Latvia, and Lithuania to deter aggression, promote 
        interoperability, build resilience through training activities 
        focused on countering unconventional warfare strategies, and 
        enable the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to take 
        collective action if required;
            (6) examine the merit and feasibility of prepositioning 
        certain equipment and ammunition in Estonia, Latvia, and 
        Lithuania;
            (7) continue rotational deployments of United States forces 
        to Romania and Bulgaria while taking full advantage of the 
        training opportunities available at military locations such as 
        Camp Mihail Kogalniceanu in Romania and Novo Selo Training Area 
        in Bulgaria;
            (8) examine the implications of Russian military activity 
        in the Arctic region for United States military capability, 
        capacity, and force posture;
            (9) conduct exercises focused on demonstrating the 
        capability to flow United States forces from the continental 
        United States and surge forces from central to eastern Europe 
        in a nonpermissive environment--
                    (A) to test and improve strategic and operational 
                logistics and transportation capabilities;
                    (B) to identify capability gaps, capacity 
                shortfalls, or other limiting factors in the execution 
                of operational plans; and
                    (C) to identify appropriate corrective action;
            (10) consider incorporating cyber protection teams, to the 
        extent practicable, with rotational forces in Europe with a 
        focus on training United States and allied forces to operate 
        against adversary cyber, electronic warfare, and information 
        operations capabilities;
            (11) support robust security assistance for Ukraine, 
        including defensive lethal assistance, while promoting 
        necessary defense institutional reforms;
            (12) support robust security assistance for Georgia, 
        including defensive lethal assistance, to strengthen the 
        defense capabilities and readiness of Georgia, and improve 
        interoperability with NATO forces;
            (13) promote enhanced military-to-military engagement 
        between the United States and the militaries of the countries 
        of the Western Balkans to promote interoperability with NATO, 
        civilian control of the military, procurement reforms, and 
        regional security cooperation;
            (14) develop and implement a comprehensive security 
        cooperation strategy that rationalizes and prioritizes support 
        for allies and partners in Europe, including Estonia, Latvia, 
        Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Moldova, and 
        Georgia;
            (15) consider the merit and feasibility of a defense 
        lending initiative to support allies and partners in Europe, 
        especially allies and partners that are most vulnerable to 
        Russian aggression, to supplement and fill gaps in existing 
        United States security assistance and arms sales mechanisms; 
        and
            (16) in NATO or through other multilateral formats--
                    (A) promote reforms to accelerate the speed of 
                decision and deployability within NATO, including 
                delegation to the Secretary General and the Supreme 
                Allied Commander Europe (SACEUR) of the authority to 
                deploy the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force to any 
                location within the territory of NATO allies in 
                response to a security crisis;
                    (B) promote a more robust NATO defense planning 
                process that--
                            (i) defines clear, stable chains-of-command 
                        responsible for the execution of graduated 
                        response plans;
                            (ii) generates realistic military 
                        requirements; and
                            (iii) provides a basis for assigning allies 
                        specific responsibilities as force providers in 
                        contingency plans;
                    (C) pursue planning agreements with allies and 
                partners in Europe on rules of engagement and 
                arrangements for command and control, access, transit, 
                and support in crisis situations, which occur prior to 
                an invocation of Article 5 of the Washington Treaty by 
                the North Atlantic Council;
                    (D) promote operational readiness of major combat 
                units as a key element of alliance burden sharing 
                alongside spending commitments made at the 2014 Wales 
                Summit, including through--
                            (i) the establishment of 30-day readiness 
                        targets for NATO kinetic air squadrons, major 
                        naval combatants, and mechanized maneuver 
                        battalions;
                            (ii) emphasis on allies maintaining fully 
                        manned units, improving readiness of key 
                        logistics units, increasing lift capacity, and 
                        maintaining sufficient stocks of equipment and 
                        munitions; and
                            (iii) the conduct of NATO exercises with a 
                        focus on rapid mobilization and deployment of 
                        allied forces;
                    (E) explore transitioning the Baltic air policing 
                mission of NATO to a Baltic air defense mission that 
                would--
                            (i) be fully integrated with the Integrated 
                        Air and Missile Defense of NATO and other 
                        regional short- and medium-range air defense 
                        systems; and
                            (ii) include the participation of NATO and 
                        regional partners such as Sweden and Finland; 
                        and
                    (F) support multilateral efforts to improve 
                maritime domain awareness in the Baltic Sea, 
                including--
                            (i) integrating subsurface sensors and 
                        anti-submarine warfare platforms of NATO and 
                        other regional partners into a shared maritime 
                        domain awareness framework;
                            (ii) coordinating the development, 
                        procurement, and employment of aerial, surface, 
                        and subsurface unmanned vehicles as well as 
                        mobile air surveillance radars;
                            (iii) expanding the scope of Sea 
                        Surveillance Cooperation Baltic Sea (SUCBAS) 
                        information sharing to include sensitive or 
                        classified data with the goal of creating a 
                        common operating picture; and
                            (iv) encouraging civil-military 
                        collaboration on maritime domain awareness;
                    (G) promote alignment of the Permanent Structured 
                Cooperation, European Defense Fund, and Coordinated 
                Annual Review on Defense of the European Union (EU) 
                with the NATO defense planning process;
                    (H) support NATO-EU cooperation to ensure that--
                            (i) EU capability development is coherent, 
                        complementary, and interoperable with NATO;
                            (ii) EU-generated capabilities are 
                        available to NATO; and
                            (iii) EU defense activities are conducted 
                        with appropriate transparency and participation 
                        of non-EU states;
                    (I) support coordinated NATO and EU actions on 
                expediting or waiving diplomatic clearances for the 
                movement of United States and allied forces during 
                contingencies;
                    (J) support cooperative investment frameworks that 
                promote increased military mobility in Europe;
                    (K) explore enhancing the role of NATO Force 
                Integration Units to more centrally coordinate 
                exercises and training by de-conflicting training 
                engagements, identifying opportunities for combined 
                activities, and ensuring exercise design and delivery 
                are responsive to the dynamic security environment;
                    (L) support cooperative efforts to improve the 
                cyber resiliency of commercial systems in Europe, 
                especially port and rail infrastructure essential for 
                military mobility;
                    (M) support NATO procurement and training efforts 
                to expand the use of secure and interoperable 
                communications at the operational level, especially in 
                the militaries of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, 
                Romania, and Bulgaria;
                    (N) expand cooperation and joint planning with 
                allies and partners on intelligence, surveillance, and 
                reconnaissance (ISR), including--
                            (i) exercises related to border security 
                        and crisis command and control; and
                            (ii) electronic warfare, anti-air, and 
                        anti-surface capabilities;
                    (O) promote efforts to improve the capability and 
                readiness of NATO Standing Maritime Groups;
                    (P) encourage regular review and update of the 
                Alliance Maritime Strategy of NATO to reflect the 
                changing military balance in the Black Sea with a 
                particular focus on ISR, cyber, electronic warfare, and 
                anti-submarine warfare capabilities as well as defense 
                of ports, airfields, military bases, and other critical 
                infrastructure;
                    (Q) explore increasing the frequency, scale, and 
                scope of NATO and other multilateral exercises in the 
                Black Sea with the participation of Ukraine and 
                Georgia;
                    (R) promote integration of United States Marines in 
                Norway with the United Kingdom-led Joint Expeditionary 
                Force to increase multilateral cooperation and 
                interoperability between NATO and regional partners 
                such as Sweden and Finland;
                    (S) affirm support for the Open Door policy of 
                NATO, including the eventual membership of Georgia in 
                NATO; and
                    (T) promote the contribution of sufficient 
                resources by NATO allies for the Substantial NATO-
                Georgia Package, and encourage NATO allies to make full 
                use of the NATO-Georgian Joint Training and Evaluation 
                Center.

SEC. 1236. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATED TO NATO SUPPORT AND PROCUREMENT 
              ORGANIZATION AND RELATED NATO AGREEMENTS.

    (a) Title 10, United States Code.--Section 2350d of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``NATO Support Organization'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``NATO Support and Procurement 
        Organization'';
            (2) by striking ``Support Partnership Agreement'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``Support or Procurement 
        Partnership Agreement''; and
            (3) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``Support Partnership 
        Agreements'' and inserting ``Support or Procurement Partnership 
        Agreements''.
    (b) Arms Export Control Act.--Section 21(e)(3) of the Arms Export 
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2761(e)(3)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
                ``North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Support 
                Organization'' and inserting ``North Atlantic Treaty 
                Organization (NATO) Support and Procurement 
                Organization''; and
                    (B) in clause (i), by striking ``support 
                partnership agreement'' and inserting ``support or 
                procurement partnership agreement''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (C)(i), in the matter preceding 
        subclause (I)--
                    (A) by striking ```weapon system partnership 
                agreement''' and inserting ```support or procurement 
                partnership agreement'''; and
                    (B) by striking ``North Atlantic Treaty 
                Organization (NATO) Support Organization'' and 
                inserting ``North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) 
                Support and Procurement Organization''.

SEC. 1237. REPORT ON SECURITY COOPERATION BETWEEN THE RUSSIAN 
              FEDERATION AND CUBA, NICARAGUA, AND VENEZUELA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on 
security cooperation between the Russian Federation and each of the 
countries specified in subsection (b).
    (b) Countries.--The countries specified in this subsection are as 
follows:
            (1) Cuba.
            (2) Nicaragua.
            (3) Venezuela.
    (c) Matters To Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) An assessment of bilateral security cooperation between 
        the Russian Federation and each country specified in subsection 
        (b) that includes each of the following:
                    (A) A list of Russian weapon systems or other 
                military hardware or technology valued at not less than 
                $1,000,000 provided to or purchased by such country 
                since January 1, 2007.
                    (B) A description of the participation of the 
                security forces of such country in training or 
                exercises with the security forces of the Russian 
                Federation since January 1, 2007.
                    (C) A description of any security cooperation 
                agreement between the Russian Federation and such 
                country.
                    (D) A description of any military or intelligence 
                infrastructure, facilities, and assets developed by the 
                Russian Federation in each such country and any 
                associated agreements or understandings between the 
                Russian Federation and such country.
            (2) An assessment of security cooperation, specifically in 
        an advisory role, among the countries specified in subsection 
        (b).
    (d) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.

SEC. 1238. SENSE OF SENATE ON COUNTERING RUSSIAN MALIGN INFLUENCE.

    It is the sense of the Senate that the Secretary of Defense and the 
Secretary of State should--
            (1) urgently prioritize the completion of a comprehensive 
        strategy to counter Russian malign influence; and
            (2) submit to Congress the report required by section 
        1239A(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91).

        Subtitle E--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

SEC. 1241. REDESIGNATION, EXPANSION, AND EXTENSION OF SOUTHEAST ASIA 
              MARITIME SECURITY INITIATIVE.

    (a) Redesignation as Indo-Pacific Maritime Security Initiative.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (a)(2) of section 1263 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 
        U.S.C. 333 note) is amended by striking ``the `Southeast Asia 
        Maritime Security Initiative''' and inserting ``the `Indo-
        Pacific Maritime Security Initiative'''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1263. INDO-PACIFIC MARITIME SECURITY INITIATIVE.''.

    (b) Expansion.--
            (1) Expansion of region to receive assistance and 
        training.--Subsection (a)(1) of such section is amended by 
        inserting ``and the Indian Ocean'' after ``South China Sea'' in 
        the matter preceding subparagraph (A).
            (2) Recipient countries of assistance and training 
        generally.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking the comma at the 
                end and inserting a period; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(6) Bangladesh.
            ``(7) Sri Lanka.''.
            (3) Countries eligible for payment of certain incremental 
        expenses.--Subsection (e)(2) of such section is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) India.''.
    (c) Extension.--Subsection (h) of such section is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2025''.

SEC. 1242. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY AND SECURITY 
              DEVELOPMENTS INVOLVING THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    Section 1202(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2000 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through (16) and (17) 
        through (23) as paragraphs (7) through (17) and (19) through 
        (25), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new 
        paragraph (6):
            ``(6) China's overseas military basing and logistics 
        infrastructure.'';
            (3) in paragraph (8), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``including technology transfers and espionage'' in the first 
        sentence and inserting ``including investment, industrial 
        espionage, cybertheft, academia, and other means of technology 
        transfer'';
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (17), as so redesignated, 
        the following new paragraph (18):
            ``(18) An assessment of relations between China and the 
        Russian Federation with respect to security and military 
        matters.''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(26) The relationship between Chinese overseas 
        investment, including initiatives such as the Belt and Road 
        Initiative, and Chinese security and military strategy 
        objectives.
            ``(27) Efforts by China to influence the media, cultural 
        institutions, business, and academic and policy communities of 
        the United States to be more favorable to its security and 
        military strategy and objectives.
            ``(28) Efforts by China to monitor and influence, in 
        support of its security and military strategy and objectives, 
        the following:
                    ``(A) Chinese citizens in the United States.
                    ``(B) United States citizens of Chinese descent.''.

SEC. 1243. SENSE OF SENATE ON TAIWAN.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) and 
        the ``Six Assurances'' are both cornerstones of United States 
        relations with Taiwan;
            (2) the United States should strengthen defense and 
        security cooperation with Taiwan to support the development of 
        capable, ready, and modern defense forces necessary for Taiwan 
        to maintain a sufficient self-defense capability;
            (3) the United States should strongly support the 
        acquisition by Taiwan of defensive weapons through foreign 
        military sales, direct commercial sales, and industrial 
        cooperation, with a particular emphasis on asymmetric warfare 
        and undersea warfare capabilities, consistent with the Taiwan 
        Relations Act;
            (4) the United States should improve the predictability of 
        arms sales to Taiwan by ensuring timely review of and response 
        to requests of Taiwan for defense articles and defense 
        services;
            (5) the Secretary of Defense should promote Department of 
        Defense policies concerning exchanges that enhance the security 
        of Taiwan, including--
                    (A) United States participation in appropriate 
                Taiwan exercises, such as the annual Han Kuang 
                exercise;
                    (B) Taiwan participation in appropriate United 
                States exercises; and
                    (C) exchanges between senior defense officials and 
                general officers of the United States and Taiwan 
                consistent with the Taiwan Travel Act (Public Law 115-
                135);
            (6) the United States and Taiwan should expand cooperation 
        in humanitarian assistance and disaster relief; and
            (7) the Secretary of Defense should consider supporting the 
        visit of a United States hospital ship to Taiwan as part of the 
        annual ``Pacific Partnership'' mission in order to improve 
        disaster response planning and preparedness as well as to 
        strengthen cooperation between the United States and Taiwan.

SEC. 1244. REDESIGNATION AND MODIFICATION OF SENSE OF CONGRESS AND 
              INITIATIVE FOR THE INDO-ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.

    (a) Redesignation.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1251 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is 
        amended by striking ``Indo-Asia-Pacific'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``Indo-Pacific''.
            (2) Heading amendments.--
                    (A) Section heading.--The heading of such section 
                is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1251. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND INITIATIVE FOR THE INDO-PACIFIC 
              REGION.''.

                    (B) Subsection headings.--Such section is further 
                amended in the headings of subsections (b) and (f) by 
                striking ``Indo-Asia-Pacific'' and inserting ``Indo-
                Pacific''.
    (b) Modification of Initiative.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking paragraphs (1) through (4) and 
                inserting the following new paragraphs (1) through (4):
            ``(1) Activities to increase the rotational and forward 
        presence, improve the capabilities, and enhance the posture of 
        the United States Armed Forces in the Indo-Pacific region--
                    ``(A) consistent with the National Defense 
                Strategy; and
                    ``(B) to the extent required to minimize the risk 
                of execution of the contingency plans of the Department 
                of Defense.
            ``(2) Activities to improve military and defense 
        infrastructure, logistics, and assured access in the Indo-
        Pacific region to enhance the responsiveness, survivability, 
        and operational resilience of the United States Armed Forces in 
        the Indo-Pacific region.
            ``(3) Activities to enhance the storage and pre-positioning 
        in the Indo-Pacific region of equipment and munitions of the 
        United States Armed Forces.
            ``(4) Bilateral and multilateral military training and 
        exercises with allies and partner nations in the Indo-Pacific 
        region.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (5)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by striking ``security capacity'' and all 
                        that follows through ``of allies'' in 
                        subparagraph (B) and inserting ``security 
                        capacity of allies''; and
                            (ii) by redesignating clauses (i) through 
                        (v) as subparagraphs (A) through (E), 
                        respectively, and indenting appropriately;
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``only''; and
            (3) by amending subsection (e) to read as follows:
    ``(e) Five-year Plan for the Indo-Pacific Stability Initiative.--
            ``(1) Plan required.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2019, 
                the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
                Commander of the United States Pacific Command, shall 
                submit to the congressional defense committees a future 
                years plan on activities and resources of the 
                Initiative.
                    ``(B) Applicability.--The plan shall apply to the 
                Initiative with respect to fiscal year 2020 and at 
                least the four succeeding fiscal years.
            ``(2) Elements.--The plan required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include each of the following:
                    ``(A) A description of the objectives of the 
                Initiative.
                    ``(B) A description of the manner in which such 
                objectives support implementation of the National 
                Defense Strategy and reduce the risk of execution of 
                the contingency plans of the Department of Defense by 
                improving the operational resilience of United States 
                forces in the Indo-Pacific region.
                    ``(C) An assessment of the resource requirements to 
                achieve such objectives.
                    ``(D) An assessment of any additional rotational or 
                permanently stationed United States forces in the Indo-
                Pacific region required to achieve such objectives.
                    ``(E) An assessment of the logistics requirements, 
                including force enablers, equipment, supplies, storage, 
                and maintenance, to achieve such objectives.
                    ``(F) An identification and assessment of required 
                infrastructure investments to achieve such objectives, 
                including potential infrastructure investments by host 
                countries and new construction or upgrades of existing 
                sites that would be funded by the United States.
                    ``(G) An assessment of any new agreements, or 
                changes to existing agreements, with other countries 
                for assured access required to achieve such objectives.
                    ``(H) An assessment of security cooperation 
                investments required to achieve such objectives.
            ``(3) Form.--The plan required under paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.''.

SEC. 1245. PROHIBITION ON PARTICIPATION OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
              CHINA IN RIM OF THE PACIFIC (RIMPAC) NAVAL EXERCISES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the pace and militarization by the Government of the 
        People's Republic of China of land reclamation activities in 
        the South China Sea is destabilizing the security of United 
        States allies and partners and threatening United States core 
        interests;
            (2) these activities of the Government of the People's 
        Republic of China adversarially threaten the maritime security 
        of the United States and our allies and partners;
            (3) no country that acts adversarially should be invited to 
        multilateral exercises; and
            (4) the involvement of the Government of the People's 
        Republic of China in multilateral exercises should undergo 
        reevaluation until such behavior changes.
    (b) Conditions for Future Participation in RIMPAC.--The Secretary 
of Defense shall not enable or facilitate the participation of the 
People's Republic of China in any Rim of the Pacific (RIMPAC) naval 
exercise unless the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense 
committees that China has--
            (1) ceased all land reclamation activities in the South 
        China Sea;
            (2) removed all weapons from its land reclamation sites; 
        and
            (3) established a consistent four-year track record of 
        taking actions toward stabilizing the region.

SEC. 1246. ASSESSMENT OF AND REPORT ON GEOPOLITICAL CONDITIONS IN THE 
              INDO-PACIFIC REGION.

    (a) Assessment.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        select and enter into an agreement with an entity independent 
        of the Department of Defense to conduct an assessment of the 
        geopolitical conditions in the Indo-Pacific region that are 
        necessary for the successful implementation of the National 
        Defense Strategy.
            (2) Matters to be included.--The assessment required by 
        paragraph (1) shall include a determination of the geopolitical 
        conditions in the Indo-Pacific region, including any change in 
        economic and political relations, that are necessary to support 
        United States military requirements for forward defense, 
        extensive forward basing, and alliance formation and 
        strengthening in such region.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the independent entity selected under subsection 
(a) shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on 
the results of the assessment conducted under that subsection.
    (c) Department of Defense Support.--The Secretary shall provide the 
independent entity selected under subsection (a) with timely access to 
appropriate information, data, resources, and analyses necessary for 
the independent entity to conduct the assessment required by that 
subsection in a thorough and independent manner.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1247. SENSE OF SENATE ON UNITED STATES-INDIA DEFENSE RELATIONSHIP.

    It is the sense the Senate that the United States should strengthen 
and enhance its major defense partnership with India and work toward 
mutual security objectives by--
            (1) expanding engagement in multilateral frameworks, 
        including the Quadrilateral Dialogue between the United States, 
        India, Japan, and Australia, to promote regional security and 
        defend shared values and common interests in the rules-based 
        order;
            (2) exploring additional steps to implement the ``major 
        defense partner'' designation to better facilitate military 
        interoperability, information sharing, and appropriate 
        technology transfers;
            (3) designating the responsible individual within the 
        Department of Defense to facilitate the major defense 
        partnership with India, as required by section 1292(a)(1)(B) of 
        the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
        (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2559);
            (4) pursuing strategic initiatives to help develop India's 
        defense capabilities, including maritime security capabilities;
            (5) improving cooperation on and coordination of 
        humanitarian and disaster relief responses;
            (6) conducting additional joint exercises with India in the 
        Persian Gulf, the Indian Ocean region, and the Western Pacific; 
        and
            (7) furthering cooperative efforts to promote security and 
        stability in Afghanistan.

SEC. 1248. SENSE OF SENATE ON STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE OF MAINTAINING 
              COMMITMENTS UNDER COMPACTS OF FREE ASSOCIATION.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) The Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the 
        Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau are sovereign 
        countries in free association with the United States under the 
        Compacts of Free Association (in this section referred to as 
        the ``Compacts''), which provide for the exclusive right of the 
        United States Armed Forces to operate in the areas covered by 
        the Compacts.
            (2) Such exclusive right allows the United States to 
        curtail the potential expansion of foreign militaries into 
        areas covered by the Compacts.
            (3) Under the Compacts, eligible citizens of the Federated 
        States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and 
        the Republic of Palau may--
                    (A) reside, work, and study in the United States 
                without a visa; and
                    (B) serve in the United States Armed Forces.
            (4) An estimated \1/4\ of the populations of the Federated 
        States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and 
        the Republic of Palau has relocated to the United States.
            (5) Under the Compacts, the Federal Government is required 
        to provide assistance to any affected jurisdiction in the 
        United States to defray costs incurred by the affected 
        jurisdiction for health, educational, social, or public safety 
        services, or for infrastructure relating to such services, due 
        to the residence in the affected jurisdiction of citizens of 
        the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the 
        Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau.
    (b) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that 
maintaining the commitments of the United States under the Compacts is 
of vital strategic importance to the national security interests of the 
United States.

SEC. 1249. SENSE OF SENATE ON UNITED STATES MILITARY FORCES ON THE 
              KOREAN PENINSULA.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) On June 25, 1950, the Democratic People's Republic of 
        Korea (DPRK), under the rule of Kim Il-sung, the grandfather of 
        Kim Jong-un, launched a surprise attack against forces from the 
        Republic of Korea (South Korea) and small contingent of United 
        States forces, thus beginning the Korean War.
            (2) In June and July of 1950, the United Nations Security 
        Council adopted Resolutions 82, 83, and 84 calling for the 
        Democratic People's Republic of Korea to cease hostilities and 
        withdraw, to recommend that United Nations member nations 
        provide forces to repel the Democratic People's Republic of 
        Korea attack, and stating any forces provided should be unified 
        under the command of the United States, respectively.
            (3) Fighting as part of a 1,000,000-strong, 22-nation 
        United Nations force, 36,574 members of the United States Armed 
        Forces and 137,899 members of the South Korean military lost 
        their lives during the three years of armed hostilities and 
        brutal conflict in the Korean War.
            (4) On July 27, 1953, the Democratic People's Republic of 
        Korea, Chinese People's Volunteers, and the United Nations 
        signed an armistice agreement ceasing all hostilities in Korea 
        and establishing the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ).
            (5) Since 1953, lawfully-deployed United States and United 
        Nations forces have remained alongside their South Korean 
        counterparts, continuing to protect and defend South Korea and 
        deter aggression from the Democratic People's Republic of 
        Korea.
            (6) As a lasting testament the blood and treasure lost 
        during the Korean War and the strong and unwavering alliance 
        built from the ashes of the conflict, the Korean War Memorial 
        in Washington, District of Columbia, and the War Memorial of 
        Korea in Seoul, South Korea, prominently display the following 
        inscription: ``Our Nation honors her Sons and Daughters who 
        answered the call to defend a Country they never knew and a 
        people they never met.''.
            (7) The United States maintains a robust, well-trained, and 
        ready force of approximately 28,500 members of the Armed Forces 
        in South Korea, and the presence of the members of the Armed 
        Forces in South Korea demonstrates the continued resolve and 
        support of the United States for the enduring United States-
        South Korean Alliance.
            (8) On December 22, 2017, Kim Jong-un stated, ``The rapid 
        development of [North Korea's] nuclear force is now exerting 
        big influence on the world political structure and strategic 
        environment.''.
            (9) On January 1, 2018, Kim Jong-un stated ``The entire 
        United States is within range of our nuclear weapons, and a 
        nuclear button is always on my desk. This is reality, not a 
        threat. This year we should focus on mass producing nuclear 
        warheads and ballistic missiles for operational deployment.''.
            (10) Despite 11 standalone United Nations Security Council 
        resolutions against the nuclear and ballistic missile programs 
        of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, 8 of which passed 
        during the rule of Kim Jong-un, the Democratic People's 
        Republic of Korea has continued to illegally and unlawfully 
        pursue a long-range, nuclear capability meant to hold hostage 
        the United States and threaten the security of the neighbors of 
        the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
            (11) The 2017 National Security Strategy (NSS) states--
                    (A) ``Our alliance and friendship with South Korea, 
                forged by the trials of history, is stronger than 
                ever.'';
                    (B) ``Allies and partners magnify our power . . . 
                [and] together with our allies, partners, and aspiring 
                partners, the United States will pursue cooperation 
                with reciprocity.''; and
                    (C) with respect to priority actions in the Indo-
                Pacific region, ``We will redouble our commitment to 
                established alliances and partnerships, while expanding 
                and deepening relationships with new partners that 
                share respect for sovereignty . . . and the rule of 
                law.''.
            (12) Secretary of Defense James Mattis stated, ``Winston 
        Churchill noted that the only thing harder than fighting with 
        allies is fighting without them. History proves that we are 
        stronger when we stand united with others. Accordingly, our 
        military will be designed, trained, and ready to fight 
        alongside allies.''.
            (13) The 2018 National Defense Strategy (NDS) states, 
        ``Mutually beneficial alliances and partnerships are crucial to 
        our strategy, providing a durable, asymmetric strategic 
        advantage that no competitor or rival can match . . . [and the 
        United States] will strengthen and evolve our alliances and 
        partnerships into an extended network capable of deterring or 
        decisively acting to meet the shared challenges of our time.''.
            (14) The unclassified summary of 2018 NDS, an 11-page 
        document, mentions the term ``allies'' or ``alliances'' over 50 
        times.
            (15) The 2018 NDS states, ``China is a strategic competitor 
        using predatory economics to intimidate its neighbors . . . 
        [and] it is increasingly clear that China. . .want[s] to shape 
        a world consistent with their authoritarian model--gaining veto 
        authority over other nations' economic, diplomatic, and 
        security decisions.''.
            (16) Foreign policy experts have long contended that the 
        first priority of the People's Republic of China on the Korean 
        Peninsula is to ensure that the Democratic People's Republic of 
        Korea remains a buffer between China and the democratic South 
        Korea and the United States forces deployed on the Korean 
        Peninsula.
            (17) China continues to provide the Democratic People's 
        Republic of Korea with most of its food and energy supplies 
        and, until recently, accounted for approximately 90 percent of 
        the total trade volume of the Democratic People's Republic of 
        Korea.
            (18) On June 30, 2017, President Donald Trump stated, ``Our 
        goal is peace, stability and prosperity for the region. But the 
        United States will defend itself, always will defend itself, 
        always, and we will always defend our allies. As part of that 
        commitment, we are working together to ensure fair burden 
        sharing and support of the United States military presence in 
        Republic of Korea.''.
            (19) South Korea already pays for approximately 50 percent 
        of the total nonpersonal costs of the 28,500 United States 
        members of the Armed Forces on the Korean Peninsula, amounting 
        to $887,500,000 in 2018.
            (20) President Moon Jae-in has committed to increasing the 
        defense spending of South Korea during his term from the 
        current level 2.4 percent of the gross domestic product to 2.9 
        percent of the gross domestic product.
            (21) News reports published in early May 2018 have stated 
        that President Trump asked the Secretary of Defense to provide 
        him with options for removing United States troops from the 
        Korean Peninsula.
            (22) National Security Advisor John Bolton responded, ``The 
        President has not asked the Pentagon to provide options for 
        reducing American forces stationed in South Korea.''.
            (23) A spokesman for the Secretary stated, ``The president 
        has not asked the Pentagon to provide options for reducing 
        American forces stationed in South Korea. The Department of 
        Defense's mission in South Korea remains the same, and our 
        force posture has not changed. The Department of Defense 
        remains committed to supporting the maximum pressure campaign, 
        developing and maintaining military options for the President, 
        and reinforcing our ironclad security commitment with our 
        allies. We all remain committed to complete, verifiable, and 
        irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.''.
    (b) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) South Korea is a close friend and ally of the United 
        States, and the United States-South Korea alliance is the 
        linchpin of peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region;
            (2) the presence of United States military forces on the 
        Korean Peninsula and across the Indo-Pacific region continues 
        to play a critical role in safeguarding the peaceful and stable 
        rules-based international order that benefits all countries;
            (3) South Korea has contributed heavily to its own defense 
        and to the defense of the United States Armed Forces in South 
        Korea, including by providing $10,000,000,000 of the 
        $10,800,000,0000 Camp Humphreys project, which is 93 percent of 
        the funding, to build and relocate United States military 
        forces to a new base in South Korea;
            (4) United States military forces, pursuant to 
        international law, are lawfully deployed on the Korean 
        Peninsula;
            (5) the nuclear and ballistic missile programs of the 
        Democratic People's Republic of Korea are clear and consistent 
        violations of international law;
            (6) the long-stated strategic objective of authoritarian 
        states such as the People's Republic of China, the Russian 
        Federation, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea has 
        been the significant removal of United States military forces 
        from the Korean Peninsula;
            (7) the maximum pressure campaign of the Trump 
        Administration, including an increase in economic sanctions and 
        diplomatic measures with United States allies and regional 
        partners, has worked to bring Kim Jong-un to the negotiation 
        table; and
            (8) the significant removal of United States military 
        forces from the Korean Peninsula is a non-negotiable item as it 
        relates to the complete, verifiable, and irreversible 
        denuclearization of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.

                          Subtitle F--Reports

SEC. 1251. REPORT ON MILITARY AND COERCIVE ACTIVITIES OF THE PEOPLE'S 
              REPUBLIC OF CHINA IN SOUTH CHINA SEA.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (d), immediately 
after the commencement of any significant reclamation or militarization 
activity by the People's Republic of China in the South China Sea, 
including any significant military deployment or operation or 
infrastructure construction, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees, and release to the public, a report on the military and 
coercive activities of China in the South China Sea in connection with 
such activity.
    (b) Elements of Report to Public.--Each report on a significant 
reclamation or militarization activity under subsection (a) shall 
include a short narrative on, and one or more corresponding images of, 
such significant reclamation or militarization activity.
    (c) Form.--
            (1) Submittal to congress.--Any report under subsection (a) 
        that is submitted to the congressional defense committees shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
            (2) Release to public.--If a report under subsection (a) is 
        released to the public, such report shall be so released in 
        unclassified form.
    (d) Waiver.--
            (1) Release of report to public.--The Secretary of Defense 
        may waive the requirement in subsection (a) for the release to 
        the public of a report on a significant reclamation or 
        militarization activity if the Secretary determines that the 
        release to the public of a report on such activity under that 
        subsection in the form required by subsection (c)(2) would have 
        an adverse effect on the national security interests of the 
        United States.
            (2) Notice to congress.--If the Secretary issues a waiver 
        under paragraph (1) with respect to a report on an activity, 
        not later than 48 hours after the Secretary issues such waiver, 
        the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees written notice of, and justification for, such 
        waiver.

SEC. 1252. REPORT ON TERRORIST USE OF HUMAN SHIELDS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
Secretary of State, shall provide a report on the use of human shields 
by terrorist groups to protect otherwise lawful targets from attack.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the lessons learned from the United 
        States and its allies and partners in addressing the use of 
        human shields by terrorist organizations such as Hamas, 
        Hezbollah, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, Al Qaeda, and 
        any other organization as determined by the Secretary of 
        Defense.
            (2) A description of a specific plan and actions being 
        taken by the Department of Defense to incorporate the lessons 
        learned as identified in paragraph (1) into Department of 
        Defense operating guidance, relevant capabilities, and tactics, 
        techniques, and procedures to deter, counter, and address the 
        challenge posed by the use of human shields and hold 
        accountable terrorist organizations for the use of human 
        shields.
    (c) Submittal of the Report.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress the report required in 
subsection (a).
    (d) Form.--The report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
may include a classified annex.
    (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
        House of Representatives.

SEC. 1253. REPORT ON ARCTIC STRATEGIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the 
Navy, and the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the strategy of the Army, 
the Navy and the Marine Corps, and the Air Force, respectively, for the 
Arctic region.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the specific means by which each Armed 
        Force, including regular components, the National Guard, and 
        the Reserves, will--
                    (A) enhance the capability of the Armed Forces to 
                defend the homeland and exercise sovereignty;
                    (B) strengthen deterrence at home and abroad;
                    (C) strengthen alliances and partnerships;
                    (D) preserve freedom of the seas in the Arctic;
                    (E) engage public, private, and international 
                partners to improve domain awareness in the Arctic;
                    (F) develop Department of Defense Arctic 
                infrastructure and capabilities consistent with 
                changing conditions and needs;
                    (G) provide support to civil authorities, as 
                directed;
                    (H) partner with other departments, agencies, and 
                countries to support human and environmental security; 
                and
                    (I) support international institutions that promote 
                regional cooperation and the rule of law.
            (2) An analysis of the role of each Armed Force in the 
        operational and contingency plans for the protection of United 
        States national security interests in the Arctic region, 
        including strategic national assets, United States citizens, 
        territory, freedom of navigation, and economic and trade 
        interests in the Arctic region, weighed against the missions 
        described in the Arctic strategy.
            (3) A detailed description of near-term and long-term 
        training, capability, and resource gaps that must be addressed 
        to fully execute each mission described in the Arctic strategy 
        against an increasing threat environment.
            (4) A description of the Armed Force-specific 
        infrastructure that may be needed to continue to accomplish 
        each mission described in the Arctic strategy against an 
        increasing threat environment, including a cost estimate and 
        potential construction timeline for such infrastructure.
            (5) A description, by Armed Force, of the current and 
        projected Arctic capabilities of the Russian Federation and the 
        People's Republic of China, and an analysis of current and 
        future United States capabilities that are required to comply 
        with--
                    (A) each mission described in the Arctic strategy; 
                and
                    (B) the strategic objectives in the National 
                Defense Strategy.
            (6) With respect to each Armed Force--
                    (A) an assessment of the level of cooperation 
                between each Armed Force and other departments and 
                agencies of the United States Government (including the 
                Department of Homeland Security and the National 
                Security Agency), State and local governments, and 
                Tribal entities; and
                    (B) a plan for increased cooperation between the 
                Armed Forces and such departments, agencies, and 
                entities.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 1254. REPORT ON PERMANENT STATIONING OF A UNITED STATES ARMY 
              BRIGADE COMBAT TEAM IN THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2019, the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report on the feasibility and 
advisability of permanently stationing a United States Army brigade 
combat team in the Republic of Poland.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall address 
the following:
            (1) An assessment whether a permanently stationed United 
        States Army brigade combat team in Poland would enhance 
        deterrence against Russian aggression in Eastern Europe.
            (2) An assessment of the actions the Russian Federation may 
        take in response to a United States decision to permanently 
        station such a brigade combat team in Poland.
            (3) An assessment of the international political 
        considerations of permanently stationing such a brigade combat 
        team in Poland, including within the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization (NATO).
            (4) An assessment whether such a brigade combat team in 
        Poland would support implementation of the National Defense 
        Strategy.
            (5) A description and assessment of the manner in which 
        such a brigade combat team in Poland may affect the ability of 
        the Joint Force to execute Department of Defense contingency 
        plans in Europe.
            (6) A description and assessment of the manner in which 
        such a brigade combat team in Poland would affect the ability 
        of the Joint Force to respond to a crisis inside the territory 
        of a North Atlantic Treaty Organization ally that occurs prior 
        to the invocation of Article 5 of the Washington Treaty by the 
        North Atlantic Council.
            (7) An identification and assessment of--
                    (A) potential locations in Poland for stationing 
                such a brigade combat team;
                    (B) the logistics requirements, including force 
                enablers, equipment, supplies, storage, and 
                maintenance, that would be required to support such a 
                brigade combat team in Poland;
                    (C) infrastructure investments by the United States 
                and Poland, including new construction or upgrades of 
                existing sites, that would be required to support such 
                a brigade combat team in Poland;
                    (D) any new agreements, or changes to existing 
                agreements, between the United States and Poland that 
                would be required for such a brigade combat team in 
                Poland;
                    (E) any changes to the posture or capabilities of 
                the Joint Force in Europe that would be required to 
                support such a brigade combat team in Poland; and
                    (F) the timeline required to achieve the permanent 
                stationing of such a brigade combat team in Poland.
            (8) An assessment of the willingness and ability of the 
        Government of Poland to provide host nation support for such a 
        brigade combat team.
            (9) An assessment of whether future growth in United States 
        Army end strength may be used to source additional forces for 
        such a brigade combat team In Poland.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 1255. REPORTS ON NUCLEAR CAPABILITIES OF THE DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S 
              REPUBLIC OF KOREA.

    (a) Baseline Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on the status of the nuclear program of 
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to establish a baseline of 
progress for negotiations with the Democratic People's Republic of 
Korea with respect to denuclearization.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following, to the extent known or suspected:
            (1) A description of the location, quantity, capability, 
        and operational status of the nuclear weapons of the Democratic 
        People's Republic of Korea.
            (2) A description of the location of nuclear research, 
        development, production, and testing facilities of the 
        Democratic People's Republic of Korea, including covert 
        facilities.
            (3) A description of the location, quantity, capability, 
        and operational status of the ballistic missiles of the 
        Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
            (4) A description of the location of the ballistic missile 
        manufacturing and assembly facilities of the Democratic 
        People's Republic of Korea.
            (5) An assessment of any intelligence gaps with respect to 
        the information required by this subsection and verification or 
        inspection measures that may fill such gaps.
    (c) Updates.--
            (1) In general.--In the case of an agreement between the 
        United States and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, 
        not later than 60 days after the date on which the agreement is 
        reached, and every 90 days thereafter, the report required by 
        subsection (a) shall be augmented by a written update.
            (2) Elements.--Each written update under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following for the preceding 90-day period:
                    (A) A description of the number of nuclear weapons 
                and ballistic missiles verifiably dismantled, 
                destroyed, rendered permanently unusable, or 
                transferred out of the Democratic People's Republic of 
                Korea.
                    (B) An identification of the location of nuclear 
                research, development, production, and testing 
                facilities in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea 
                identified and verifiably dismantled, destroyed, or 
                rendered permanently unusable.
                    (C) An identification of the location of ballistic 
                missile manufacturing and assembly facilities in the 
                Democratic People's Republic of Korea verifiably 
                dismantled, destroyed, or rendered permanently 
                unusable.
                    (D) A description of the number of nuclear weapons 
                and ballistic missiles that remain in or under the 
                control of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
                    (E) An assessment of the progress made in extending 
                the breakout period required for the Democratic 
                People's Republic of Korea to reconstitute its nuclear 
                weapons program and build a nuclear weapon, as such 
                progress relates to the information required by 
                subparagraphs (A) through (D).
    (d) Verification Assessment Report.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date on which the report required by subsection (a) is submitted, 
and every 180 days thereafter, the written update required under 
paragraph (1) of subsection (c) shall include, in addition to the 
information required by subparagraphs (A) through (E) of that 
subsection, the following for the preceding 180-day period:
            (1) An assessment of the establishment of safeguards, other 
        control mechanisms, and other assurances secured from the 
        Democratic People's Republic of Korea to ensure the activities 
        of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea permitted under 
        any agreement will not be used to further any nuclear-related 
        military or nuclear explosive purpose, including research on or 
        development of a nuclear explosive device.
            (2) An assessment of the capacity of the United States or 
        an international organization, including the International 
        Atomic Energy Agency, to effectively access and investigate 
        suspicious sites in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea 
        or allegations of covert nuclear-related activities, including 
        storage sites for nuclear weapons.
    (e) Sunset.--The section shall cease to be effective on the date 
that is three years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (f) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Select Committee 
        on Intelligence, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Permanent Select 
        Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
        and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 1256. REPORT ON UNITED STATES MILITARY TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES WITH 
              ALLIES AND PARTNERS IN THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION.

    (a) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Secretary of Defense, as part of strategic 
        initiatives, should continue to place emphasis on and consider 
        the benefits of United States military training exercises with 
        allies in the Indo-Pacific region;
            (2) the Indo-Pacific region is--
                    (A) a strategically important region; and
                    (B) critical to the interests of the United States;
            (3) the relationship between the United States and allies 
        and partners in the Indo-Pacific region is essential for 
        ensuring peace and security in the region;
            (4) interoperability between the United States and allies 
        in the Indo-Pacific region increases readiness and regional 
        contingency response time;
            (5) the United States should focus on expanding training 
        with other allied nations and partners in the Indo-Pacific 
        region;
            (6) the United States, working within our framework of 
        alliances and partnerships, should seek to build the capacity 
        and capability of our allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific 
        region and to expand interoperability with them; and
            (7) the United States and its partners in the Indo-Pacific 
        region should continue to work together to build the forces, 
        infrastructure, relationships, and training needed to respond 
        to search and rescue and humanitarian assistance needed in the 
        whole of catastrophic natural disasters.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
        future United States military training opportunities with 
        allied and partner countries in the Indo-Pacific region.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A detailed description of--
                            (i) current United States military 
                        exercises involving United States partners and 
                        allies in the Indo-Pacific region;
                            (ii) the manner in which such exercises are 
                        intended to improve the capability and capacity 
                        of such partners and allies; and
                            (iii) the interoperability of such partners 
                        and allies with the United States Armed Forces.
                    (B) An analysis of the potential to expand the 
                size, scope, or makeup of such exercises to include--
                            (i) additional forces and units of current 
                        participants;
                            (ii) additional capabilities or training; 
                        and
                            (iii) other allies and partners in the 
                        Indo-Pacific region and other regions.
                    (C) An identification of new United States military 
                exercises that may be initiated in the Indo-Pacific 
                region with--
                            (i) security treaty allies such as Japan, 
                        South Korea, Australia, the Philippines, and 
                        Thailand;
                            (ii) growing partners such as India, 
                        Indonesia, Malaysia, Mongolia, New Zealand, 
                        Singapore, Sri Lanka, and Vietnam;
                            (iii) existing multilateral frameworks, 
                        such as the Association of Southeast Asian 
                        Nations (ASEAN);
                            (iv) allies and partners outside the Indo-
                        Pacific region; and
                            (v) potential new allies or partners.
            (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 1261. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO ACQUISITION AND 
              CROSS-SERVICING AGREEMENTS.

    (a) Prohibitions.--Section 2342 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (f); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsections (d) and (e):
    ``(d) The Secretary of may not use an agreement with any government 
of an organization described in subsection (a)(1) to facilitate the 
transfer of logistic support, supplies, and services to any country or 
organization with which the Secretary has not signed an agreement 
described in subsection (a)(2).
    ``(e) An agreement described in subsection (a)(2) may not provide 
or otherwise constitute a commitment for the introduction of the armed 
forces into hostilities.''.
    (b) Annual Reports.--Such section is further amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Not later than January 15 each year, the Secretary shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on 
acquisition and cross-servicing activities that sets forth, in detail, 
the following:
            ``(1) A list of agreements in effect pursuant to subsection 
        (a)(1) during the preceding fiscal year.
            ``(2) The date on which each agreement listed under 
        paragraph (1) was signed, and, in the case of an agreement with 
        a country that is not a member of the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization, the date on which the Secretary notified Congress 
        pursuant to subsection (b)(2) of the designation of such 
        country under subsection (a).
            ``(3) The total dollar amount and major categories of 
        logistic support, supplies, and services provided during the 
        preceding fiscal year under each such agreement.
            ``(4) The total dollar amount and major categories of 
        reciprocal provisions of logistic support, supplies, and 
        services received under each such agreement.
            ``(5) With respect to the calendar year during which the 
        report is submitted, an assessment of the following:
                    ``(A) The anticipated logistic support, supplies, 
                and services requirements of the United States.
                    ``(B) The anticipated requirements of other 
                countries for United States logistic support, supplies, 
                and services.''.
    (c) Definitions.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``the Committee on 
        Armed Services'' the first place it appears and all that 
        follows through ``the House of Representatives'' and inserting 
        ``the appropriate committees of Congress''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) In this section, the term `appropriate committees of 
Congress' means--
            ``(1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            ``(2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.''.

SEC. 1262. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF AMOUNTS FOR GLOBAL 
              ENGAGEMENT CENTER.

    Section 1287(e)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2546; 22 U.S.C. 2656 
note) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) for fiscal year 2019 are less than 
                $80,000,000, the Secretary of Defense is authorized to 
                transfer, from amounts authorized to be appropriated by 
                an Act authorizing funds for the Department of Defense 
                for fiscal year 2019, to the Secretary of State an 
                amount, not to exceed $60,000,000, to be available to 
                carry out the functions of the Center for fiscal year 
                2019.''.

SEC. 1263. SENSE OF SENATE ON PURCHASE BY TURKEY OF S-400 AIR DEFENSE 
              SYSTEM.

    It is the sense of the Senate that if the Republic of Turkey 
purchases the S-400 air defense system from the Russian Federation--
            (1) such purchase would constitute a significant 
        transaction within the meaning of section 231(a) of the 
        Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017 
        (title II of Public Law 115-44; 22 U.S.C. 9525(a)); and
            (2) the President should faithfully execute that Act by 
        imposing and applying sanctions under section 235 of that Act 
        (22 U.S.C. 9529) with respect to any individual or entity 
        determined to have engaged in such significant transaction as 
        if such person were a sanctioned person for purposes of such 
        section 235.

SEC. 1264. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT FOR STABILIZATION ACTIVITIES 
              IN NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence 
of the Secretary of State and in consultation with the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International Development and the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget, provide support for the 
stabilization activities of other Federal agencies specified under 
subsection (c).
    (b) Designation of Foreign Areas.--
            (1) In general.--Amounts authorized to be provided pursuant 
        to this section shall be available only for support for 
        stabilization activities--
                    (A) in a country specified in paragraph (2); and
                    (B) that the Secretary of Defense, with the 
                concurrence of the Secretary of State, has determined 
                are in the national security interest of the United 
                States.
            (2) Specified countries.--The countries specified in this 
        paragraph are as follows:
                    (A) Iraq.
                    (B) Syria.
                    (C) Afghanistan.
                    (D) Somalia.
    (c) Support to Other Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Support may be provided for stabilization 
        activities under subsection (a) to the Department of State, the 
        United States Agency for International Development, or other 
        Federal agencies, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis.
            (2) Type of support.--Support under subsection (a) may 
        consist of--
                    (A) logistic support, supplies, and services; and
                    (B) equipment.
    (d) Requirement for a Stabilization Strategy.--
            (1) Limitation.--With respect to any country specified in 
        subsection (b)(2), no amount of support may be provided under 
        subsection (a) until 15 days after the date on which the 
        Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
        State, submits to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        detailed report setting forth a stabilization strategy for such 
        country.
            (2) Elements of determination.--The stabilization strategy 
        required by paragraph (1) shall set forth the following:
                    (A) The United States interests in conducting 
                stabilization activities in the country specified in 
                subsection (b)(2).
                    (B) The key foreign partners and actors in such 
                country.
                    (C) The desired end states and objectives of the 
                United States stabilization activities in such country.
                    (D) The Department of Defense support intended to 
                be provided for the stabilization activities of other 
                Federal agencies under section (a).
                    (E) Any mechanism for civil-military coordination 
                regarding support for stabilization activities.
                    (F) The mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating 
                the effectiveness of Department of Defense support for 
                United States stabilization activities in the area.
    (e) Requirement for Guidance.--No amount of support may be provided 
under subsection (a) until 30 days after the date on which the 
Secretary of Defense submits to the appropriate committees of Congress 
written guidance for the design, implementation, monitoring, and 
evaluation of support provided under that subsection.
    (f) Report.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress on an annual basis a report that includes the following:
            (1) The identification of each foreign area within 
        countries specified in subparagraph (b)(2) for which support to 
        stabilization has occurred.
            (2) The total amount spent by the Department of Defense, 
        broken out by recipient Federal agency and activity.
            (3) An assessment of the contribution of each activity 
        toward greater stability.
            (4) An articulation of any plans for continued Department 
        of Defense support to stabilization in the specified foreign 
        area in order to maintain or improve stability.
            (5) Other matters as the Secretary considers to be 
        appropriate.
    (g) Use of Funds.--
            (1) Source of funds.--Amounts for activities carried out 
        under this section in a fiscal year shall be derived only from 
        amounts authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year for 
        the Department of Defense for Operation and Maintenance, 
        Defense-wide.
            (2) Limitation.--Not more than $25,000,000 in each fiscal 
        year is authorized to be used to provide support under this 
        section.
    (h) Expiration.--The authority provided under this section may not 
be exercised after September 30, 2020.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Logistic support, supplies, and services.--The term 
        ``logistic support, supplies, and services'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 2350(1) of title 10 United States 
        Code.

SEC. 1265. ENHANCEMENT OF U.S.-ISRAEL DEFENSE COOPERATION.

    (a) Extension of War Reserves Stockpile Authority.--Section 
12001(d) of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public 
Law 108-287; 118 Stat. 1011) is amended by striking ``after September 
30, 2018'' and inserting ``after September 30, 2023''.
    (b) Joint Assessment of Quantity of Precision Guided Munitions for 
Use by Israel.--
            (1) In general.--The President, acting through the 
        Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense, is authorized 
        to conduct a joint assessment with the Government of Israel 
        with respect to the matters described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Matters described.--The matters described in this 
        paragraph are the following:
                    (A) The quantity and type of precision guided 
                munitions that are necessary for Israel to combat 
                Hezbollah in the event of a sustained armed 
                confrontation between Israel and Hezbollah.
                    (B) The quantity and type of precision guided 
                munitions that are necessary for Israel in the event of 
                a sustained armed confrontation with other armed groups 
                and terrorist organizations such as Hamas.
                    (C) The resources the Government of Israel plans to 
                dedicate to acquire such precision guided munitions.
                    (D) United States planning to assist Israel to 
                prepare for sustained armed confrontations described in 
                this subsection as well as the ability of the United 
                States to resupply Israel in the event of 
                confrontations described in subparagraphs (A) and (B), 
                if any.
            (3) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 15 days after the 
                date on which the joint assessment authorized under 
                paragraph (1) is completed, the President shall submit 
                to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
                that contains the joint assessment.
                    (B) Form.--The report required under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be submitted in classified form, but may 
                contain an unclassified summary.
                    (C) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--
                In this paragraph, the term ``appropriate congressional 
                committees'' means--
                            (i) the Committee on Foreign Relations and 
                        the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; 
                        and
                            (ii) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and 
                        the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                        Representatives.
    (c) Modification of Rapid Acquisition and Deployment Procedures.--
            (1) Requirement to establish procedures.--Section 806(a) of 
        the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2003 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note; Public Law 107-314) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(C), by striking ``; and'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(3) urgently needed to support production of precision 
        guided munitions--
                    ``(A) for the United States to meet requirements; 
                or
                    ``(B) to assist an ally of the United States under 
                direct missile threat from--
                            ``(i) an organization the Secretary of 
                        State has designated as a foreign terrorist 
                        organization pursuant to section 219 of the 
                        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
                        1189); or
                            ``(ii) a country the government of which 
                        the Secretary of State has determined, for 
                        purposes of section 6(j) of the Export 
                        Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4605(j)) 
                        (as in effect pursuant to the International 
                        Emergency Economic Powers Act), section 620A of 
                        the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
                        2371), section 40 of the Arms Export Control 
                        Act (22 U.S.C. 2780), or any other provision of 
                        law, is a government that has repeatedly 
                        provided support for acts of international 
                        terrorism.''.
            (2) Prescription of procedures.--Not later than 180 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        Defense shall prescribe procedures for the rapid acquisition 
        and deployment of supplies and associated support services for 
        purposes described in paragraph (3) of section 806(a) of the 
        Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2003, as added by paragraph (1)(C).

SEC. 1266. CERTIFICATIONS REGARDING ACTIONS BY SAUDI ARABIA IN YEMEN.

    (a) Restriction.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), if the Secretary 
        of State is unable under subsection (c) or (d) to certify that 
        the Government of Saudi Arabia is undertaking the effort, 
        measures, and actions described in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), 
        and (4) of subsection (c), no Federal funds may be obligated or 
        expended after the deadline for the applicable certification to 
        provide authorized in-flight refueling pursuant to section 2342 
        of title 10, United States Code, or other applicable statutory 
        authority, of Saudi or Saudi-led coalition non-United States 
        aircraft conducting missions in Yemen, other than missions 
        related to--
                    (A) al Qaeda, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula 
                (AQAP), or the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS);
                    (B) countering the transport, assembly, or 
                employment of ballistic missiles or components in 
                Yemen;
                    (C) helping coalition aircraft return safely to 
                base in emergency situations;
                    (D) force protection of United States aircraft, 
                ships, or personnel; or
                    (E) freedom of navigation for United States 
                military and international commerce.
            (2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the restriction in 
        paragraph (1) with respect to a particular certification if the 
        Secretary--
                    (A) certifies to the appropriate committees of 
                Congress that the waiver is in the national security 
                interests of the United States; and
                    (B) submits to the appropriate committees of 
                Congress a report, in written and unclassified form, 
                setting forth--
                            (i) the effort in subsection (c)(1), 
                        measures in subsection (c)(2), or actions in 
                        subsections (c)(3) or (c)(4), or combination 
                        thereof, about which the Secretary is unable to 
                        make the certification;
                            (ii) a detailed explanation why the 
                        Secretary is unable to make the certification 
                        about such effort, measures, or actions;
                            (iii) a description of the actions the 
                        Secretary is taking to encourage the Government 
                        of Saudi Arabia to undertake such effort, 
                        measures, or actions; and
                            (iv) a detailed justification for the 
                        waiver.
    (b) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the President or the President's designee 
shall provide a briefing to the appropriate committees of Congress 
including, at a minimum--
            (1) a description of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab 
        Emirates' military and political objectives in Yemen and 
        whether United States assistance to the Saudi-led coalition has 
        resulted in significant progress towards meeting those 
        objectives;
            (2) a description of efforts by the Government of Saudi 
        Arabia to avoid disproportionate harm to civilians and civilian 
        objects in Yemen, and an assessment of whether United States 
        assistance to the Saudi-led coalition has led to a demonstrable 
        decrease in civilians killed or injured by Saudi-led airstrikes 
        and damage to civilian infrastructure;
            (3) an assessment of the United Nations Verification and 
        Inspection Mechanism (UNVIM) in Yemen and an assessment of the 
        need for existing secondary inspection and clearance processes 
        and transshipment requirements on humanitarian and commercial 
        vessels that have been cleared by UNVIM;
            (4) a description of the sources of external support for 
        the Houthi forces, including financial assistance, weapons 
        transfers, operational planning, training, and advisory 
        assistance;
            (5) an assessment of the applicability of United States and 
        international sanctions to Houthi forces that have committed 
        grave human rights abuses, obstructed international aid, and 
        launched ballistic missiles into Saudi territory, and an 
        assessment of the applicability of United States and 
        international sanctions to individuals or entities providing 
        the Houthi forces with material support; and
            (6) an assessment of the effect of the Saudi-led 
        coalition's military operations in Yemen on the efforts of the 
        United States to defeat al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and 
        the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
    (c) Initial Certification.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a certification indicating 
whether the Government of Saudi Arabia is undertaking--
            (1) an urgent and good faith effort to support diplomatic 
        efforts to end the civil war in Yemen;
            (2) appropriate measures to alleviate the humanitarian 
        crisis in Yemen by increasing access for Yemenis to food, fuel, 
        medicine, and medical evacuation, including through the 
        appropriate use of Yemen's Red Sea ports, including the port of 
        Hudaydah, the airport in Sana'a, and external border crossings 
        with Saudi Arabia;
            (3) appropriate actions to reduce any unnecessary delays to 
        shipments associated with secondary inspection and clearance 
        processes other than the United Nations Verification and 
        Inspections Mechanism (UNVIM); and
            (4) demonstrable actions to reduce the risk of harm to 
        civilians and civilian infrastructure resulting from its 
        military operations in Yemen, including by--
                    (A) complying with applicable agreements and laws 
                regulating defense articles purchased or transferred 
                from the United States; and
                    (B) taking appropriate steps to avoid 
                disproportionate harm to civilians and civilian 
                infrastructure.
    (d) Subsequent Certifications.--Not later than 180 and 360 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a certification 
indicating whether the Government of Saudi Arabia is undertaking the 
effort, measures, and actions described in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), 
and (4) of subsection (c).
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
as authorizing the use of military force.
    (f) Form of Certifications.--The certifications required under 
subsections (c) and (d) shall be written, detailed, and submitted in 
unclassified form.
    (g) Strategy Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in coordination with 
the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the United States 
Agency for International Development, shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress an unclassified report listing United States 
objectives in Yemen and detailing a strategy to accomplish those 
objectives. The report shall be unclassified but may include a 
classified annex.
    (h) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.

SEC. 1267. SENSE OF SENATE ON SUPPORT FOR G5 SAHEL JOINT FORCE 
              COUNTRIES.

    It is the sense of the Senate that the United States should--
            (1) work with partners and allies to disrupt violent 
        extremist organizations in the Sahel region that threaten 
        United States security interests;
            (2) enhance cooperation with G5 Sahel Joint Force 
        countries, which are--
                    (A) Burkina Faso;
                    (B) Mali;
                    (C) Mauritania;
                    (D) Niger; and
                    (E) Chad;
            (3) continue to support the efforts of each G5 Sahel Joint 
        Force country--
                    (A) to improve security along the respective 
                borders of each country through the cooperation and 
                deployment of joint patrols to interdict the cross-
                border flows of illicit trafficking and violent 
                extremist groups;
                    (B) to address underlying sources of instability in 
                each country through a whole-of-government approach; 
                and
                    (C) to build and sustain in each country--
                            (i) an effective, accountable government;
                            (ii) a capable and professional military; 
                        and
                            (iii) a healthy economy; and
            (4) ensure that any assistance of the United States to a G5 
        Sahel Joint Force country is undertaken as a whole-of-
        government effort that balances all instruments of United 
        States national power.

SEC. 1268. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON BROADENING AND EXPANDING STRATEGIC 
              PARTNERSHIPS AND ALLIES.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States is an ally-rich country and our 
        potential competitors, such as Russia, China, and North Korea, 
        are ally-poor countries;
            (2) United States allies and partners are critical to 
        defending peace and prosperity throughout the world;
            (3) the rules-based international order supported by the 
        United States and its allies has ensured, and will continue to 
        promote, an international system that benefits all nations;
            (4) throughout the world, the United States will continue 
        to foster relationships with countries with like minds and 
        beliefs;
            (5) as the United States manages multiple strategic 
        challenges, the enduring strength of the United States remains 
        in alliances such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, 
        the Rio Treaty, and mutual defense treaties with Japan, the 
        Republic of Korea, Australia, the Philippines, and Thailand;
            (6) the resolve of the United States remains as strong as 
        ever to forge new alliances and partnerships with countries in 
        order to jointly to work with one another on shared challenges 
        in Europe, the Indo-Pacific and throughout the world;
            (7) the United States will continue to invest in critical 
        capabilities, build a force posture that decreases the 
        vulnerabilities of the United States and increases resiliency, 
        all of which will help reassure the allies and partners of the 
        United States;
            (8) the United States will encourage allies and partners to 
        be full and cooperative partners in their own defense and the 
        defense of the free and open international order; and
            (9) the United States will continue to deepen and expand 
        alliances, especially in the Indo-Pacific, and will take no 
        ally for granted.

SEC. 1269. REMOVAL OF TURKEY FROM THE F-35 PROGRAM.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Government of the Republic of Turkey continues to 
        unlawfully and wrongfully detain Andrew Brunson, a United 
        States citizen, and continues to deny Mr. Brunson due process 
        rights consistent with international norms.
            (2) The Government of the Republic of Turkey has wrongly 
        charged Andrew Brunson with belonging to a terrorist 
        organization and engaging in terrorist activities.
            (3) The Government of the Republic of Turkey, including the 
        senior leadership of the government, bears direct 
        responsibility for the health and safety of Andrew Brunson 
        while he remains in the custody of the Government of the 
        Republic of Turkey.
            (4) Congress will not tolerate any foreign government's 
        efforts to use United States citizens for political leverage.
            (5) President Erdogan, along with other senior officials of 
        the Government of the Republic of Turkey, have publicly and 
        repeatedly stated the intention of the Government of the 
        Republic of Turkey to purchase the S-400 system from Russia, an 
        act that is sanctionable under current United States law.
            (6) Any effort by the Government of the Republic of Turkey 
        to further enhance their relationship with Russia will degrade 
        the general security of the NATO alliance, and NATO member 
        countries, and degrade interoperability of the alliance.
    (b) Report.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a plan to remove the Government of 
the Republic of Turkey from participation in the F-35 program, to 
include industrial and military aspects of the program. The plan shall 
include:
            (1) steps required to unwind industrial participation of 
        Turkish industry in the manufacturing and assembly of the F-35 
        program;
            (2) costs associated with replacing tooling and other 
        manufacturing materials held by Turkish industry;
            (3) timelines associated with the removal of the Government 
        of the Republic of Turkey and Turkish industry from 
        participation in the F-35 program, so as to cause the least 
        impact on the remaining international program partners; and
            (4) steps required to prohibit the transfer of any F-35 
        aircraft currently owned and operated, by the Government of the 
        Republic of Turkey, from the territory of the United States.
    (c) Limitation on the Transfer of the F-35 to Turkey.--The 
Department of Defense may not transfer the title for any F-35 aircraft 
to the Government of the Republic of Turkey, until such time as the 
report identified in subsection (b) has been submitted.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the congressional defense committees; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 1270. INCREASE IN MINIMUM AMOUNT OF OBLIGATIONS FROM THE SPECIAL 
              DEFENSE ACQUISITION FUND FOR PRECISION GUIDED MUNITIONS.

    (a) Increase.--Section 114(c)(3) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ``20 percent'' and inserting ``25 percent''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2018, and shall apply with respect to fiscal 
years beginning on and after that date.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

SEC. 1301. SPECIFICATION OF COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION FUNDS.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2019 Cooperative Threat Reduction Funds Defined.--
In this title, the term ``fiscal year 2019 Cooperative Threat Reduction 
funds'' means the funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 301 and made available by the funding table 
in section 4301 for the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat 
Reduction Program established under section 1321 of the Department of 
Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 U.S.C. 3711).
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by 
the funding table in section 4301 for the Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program shall be available for obligation 
for fiscal years 2019, 2020, and 2021.

SEC. 1302. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS.

    Of the $335,240,000 authorized to be appropriated to the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2019 in section 301 and made available by 
the funding table in section 4301 for the Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program established under section 1321 of 
the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 U.S.C. 
3711), the following amounts may be obligated for the purposes 
specified:
            (1) For strategic offensive arms elimination, $2,823,000.
            (2) For chemical weapons destruction, $5,446,000.
            (3) For global nuclear security, $29,001,000.
            (4) For cooperative biological engagement, $197,585,000.
            (5) For proliferation prevention, $74,937,000.
            (6) For activities designated as Other Assessments/
        Administrative Costs, $25,448,000.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

SEC. 1401. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.

SEC. 1402. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2019 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and 
Munitions Destruction, Defense, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501.
    (b) Use.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
(a) are authorized for--
            (1) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions 
        in accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense 
        Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
            (2) the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the 
        United States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.

SEC. 1403. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2019 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4501.

SEC. 1404. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2019 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.

SEC. 1405. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 
for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501, for use of the Armed Forces and other activities and 
agencies of the Department of Defense in providing for the health of 
eligible beneficiaries.

                 Subtitle B--National Defense Stockpile

SEC. 1411. CONSOLIDATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE STRATEGIC 
              AND CRITICAL MATERIALS STOCK PILING ACT.

    Section 11 of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act 
(50 U.S.C. 98h-2) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``January 15 of'' and 
        inserting ``February 15''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Not later'' and 
                all that follows through ``report containing'' and 
                inserting ``Each report under subsection (a) shall also 
                include''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``Each such report'' in the 
                        first sentence and inserting ``Each report 
                        under subsection (a) with respect to matters 
                        covered by this subsection''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Each such report'' in 
                        the second sentence and inserting ``Each report 
                        under subsection (a) with respect to such 
                        matters''.

                Subtitle C--Armed Forces Retirement Home

SEC. 1421. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT 
              HOME.

    There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 
from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $64,300,000 
for the operation of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.

SEC. 1422. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR RESIDENCE AT THE ARMED FORCES 
              RETIREMENT HOME.

    Section 1512 of the Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24 
U.S.C. 412) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1512. RESIDENTS OF RETIREMENT HOME.

    ``(a) Persons Eligible to Be Residents.--Except as provided in 
subsection (b), the following persons who served as members of the 
Armed Forces, at least one-half of whose service was not active 
commissioned service (other than as a warrant officer or limited-duty 
officer), are eligible to become residents of the Retirement Home:
            ``(1) Persons who are 60 years of age or over and were 
        discharged or released from service in the Armed Forces after 
        20 or more years of active service.
            ``(2) Persons who are determined under rules prescribed by 
        the Chief Operating Officer to be suffering from a service-
        connected disability incurred in the line of duty in the Armed 
        Forces.
            ``(3) Persons who served in a war theater during a time of 
        war declared by Congress or were eligible for hostile fire 
        special pay under section 310 or 351 of title 37, United States 
        Code, and who are determined under rules prescribed by the 
        Chief Operating Officer to be suffering from injuries, disease, 
        or disability.
            ``(4) Persons who served in a women's component of the 
        Armed Forces before June 12, 1948, and are determined under 
        rules prescribed by the Chief Operating Officer to be eligible 
        for admission because of compelling personal circumstances.
    ``(b) Persons Ineligible to Be Residents.--The following persons 
are ineligible to become a resident of the Retirement Home:
            ``(1) A person who--
                    ``(A) has been convicted of a felony; or
                    ``(B) was discharged or released from service in 
                the Armed Forces under other than honorable conditions.
            ``(2) A person with substance abuse or mental health 
        problems, except upon a judgment and satisfactory determination 
        by the Chief Operating Officer that--
                    ``(A) the person has been evaluated by a qualified 
                health professional selected by the Retirement Home;
                    ``(B) the Retirement Home can accommodate the 
                person's condition; and
                    ``(C) the person agrees to such conditions of 
                residency as the Retirement Home may require.
    ``(c) Acceptance.--To apply for acceptance as a resident of a 
facility of the Retirement Home, a person eligible to be a resident 
shall submit to the Administrator of that facility an application in 
such form and containing such information as the Chief Operating 
Officer may require.
    ``(d) Priorities for Acceptance.--The Chief Operating Officer shall 
establish a system of priorities for the acceptance of residents so 
that the most deserving applicants will be accepted whenever the number 
of eligible applicants is greater than the Retirement Home can 
accommodate.
    ``(e) Spouses of Residents.--
            ``(1) Authority to admit.--Except as otherwise established 
        pursuant to subsection (d), the spouse of a person accepted as 
        a resident of a facility of the Retirement Home may be admitted 
        to that facility if the spouse--
                    ``(A) is a covered beneficiary within the meaning 
                of section 1072(5) of title 10, United States Code;
                    ``(B) is not ineligible to become a resident as 
                provided in subsection (b); and
                    ``(C) submits an application for admittance in 
                accordance with subsection (c).
            ``(2) Treatment as resident.--A spouse admitted in 
        accordance with paragraph (1) shall be a resident of the 
        Retirement Home consistent with this Act, except as the Chief 
        Operating Officer may otherwise provide.''.

SEC. 1423. OVERSIGHT OF HEALTH CARE PROVIDED TO RESIDENTS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES RETIREMENT HOME.

    Section 1513A(c) of the Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 
(24 U.S.C. 413a(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph (1):
            ``(1) Facilitate and monitor the timely availability to 
        residents of the Retirement Home such medical, mental health, 
        and dental care services as such residents may require at 
        locations other than the Retirement Home.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Ensure'' and inserting 
        ``Monitor''.

SEC. 1424. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY ON ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS FOR THE 
              ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME.

    Paragraph (1) of section 1515(f) of the Armed Forces Retirement 
Home Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 415(f)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(1) The Chief Operating Officer may accept, receive, solicit, 
hold, administer, and use any gift, devise, or bequest, either 
absolutely or in trust, of real or personal property, or any income 
therefrom or other interest therein, for the benefit of the Retirement 
Home.''.

SEC. 1425. RELIEF FOR RESIDENTS OF THE ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME 
              IMPACTED BY INCREASE IN FEES.

    (a) Prohibition on Removal for Inability To Pay Fee Increase.--A 
resident of the Armed Forces Retirement Home as of September 30, 2018, 
may not be removed or released from the Retirement Home after that date 
based solely upon the inability of the resident to pay the amount of 
any increase in fees applicable to residents of the Retirement Home 
that takes effect on October 1, 2018.
    (b) Other Relief.--The Chief Operating Officer of the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home shall take all actions practicable to accommodate 
residents of the Retirement Home who are impacted by the fee structure 
applicable to residents of the Retirement Home that takes effect on 
October 1, 2018, including through hardship relief, additional 
deductions from gross income, and other appropriate actions.

SEC. 1426. LIMITATION ON APPLICABILITY OF FEE INCREASE FOR RESIDENTS OF 
              THE ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME.

    In the case of an individual who was a resident of the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home as of April 9, 2018, the increase in fees pursuant to 
the increase in fees for residents of the Home scheduled to take effect 
on October 1, 2018, may not exceed an amount equal to 50 percent of the 
fees payable by such individual as such a resident as of April 9, 2018.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 1431. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOINT DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY 
              DEMONSTRATION FUND FOR CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH 
              CARE CENTER, ILLINOIS.

    (a) Authority for Transfer of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by section 1405 and available for the Defense Health 
Program for operation and maintenance, $113,000,000 may be transferred 
by the Secretary of Defense to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund 
established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2571). For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such section 1704, 
any funds so transferred shall be treated as amounts authorized and 
appropriated specifically for the purpose of such a transfer.
    (b) Use of Transferred Funds.--For the purposes of subsection (b) 
of such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred 
under subsection (a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility 
under an operational agreement covered by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).

SEC. 1432. ECONOMICAL AND EFFICIENT OPERATION OF WORKING CAPITAL FUND 
              ACTIVITIES.

    Section 2208(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(e)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The accomplishment of the most economical and efficient 
organization and operation of working capital fund activities for the 
purposes of paragraph (1) shall include actions toward the following:
            ``(A) The implementation of a workload plan that optimizes 
        the efficiency of the workforce operating within a working 
        capital fund activity and reduces the rate structure.
            ``(B) Encouraging a working capital fund activity to 
        perform reimbursable work for other entities to sustain the 
        efficient use of the workforce.
            ``(C) Determining the appropriate leadership level for 
        approving work from outside entities to maximize efficiency.''.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

              Subtitle A--Authorizations of Appropriations

SEC. 1501. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize appropriations for the 
Department of Defense for fiscal year 2019 to provide additional funds 
for overseas contingency operations being carried out by the Armed 
Forces.

SEC. 1502. OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 
for the Department of Defense for overseas contingency operations in 
such amounts as may be designated as provided in section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(ii)).

SEC. 1503. PROCUREMENT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 
for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, 
the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4102.

SEC. 1504. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4202.

SEC. 1505. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4302.

SEC. 1506. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
military personnel, as specified in the funding table in section 4402.

SEC. 1507. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.

SEC. 1508. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2019 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4502.

SEC. 1509. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2019 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.

SEC. 1510. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2019 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4502.

                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

SEC. 1521. TREATMENT AS ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATIONS.

    The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are in 
addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act.

SEC. 1522. SPECIAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authority To Transfer Authorizations.--
            (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
        Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, 
        the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made 
        available to the Department of Defense in this title for fiscal 
        year 2019 between any such authorizations for that fiscal year 
        (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so 
        transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same 
        purposes as the authorization to which transferred.
            (2) Limitation.--The total amount of authorizations that 
        the Secretary may transfer under the authority of this 
        subsection may not exceed $3,500,000,000.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--Transfers under this section shall be 
subject to the same terms and conditions as transfers under section 
1001.
    (c) Additional Authority.--The transfer authority provided by this 
section is in addition to the transfer authority provided under section 
1001.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 1531. JOINT IMPROVISED-THREAT DEFEAT ORGANIZATION.

    (a) Use and Transfer of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Subsections (b) and (c) of section 1514 of 
        the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2439), as in effect 
        before the amendments made by section 1503 of the Duncan Hunter 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
        Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4649), shall apply to amounts made 
        available for fiscal year 2019 for the Department of Defense 
        for the Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Organization.
            (2) References to joint improvised explosive device defeat 
        fund.--In the application of paragraph (1) to the use of funds 
        described in that paragraph in fiscal year 2019, any reference 
        in the subsections referred to in that paragraph to the Joint 
        Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund shall be deemed to be a 
        reference to the Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Organization.
    (b) Interdiction of Improvised Explosive Device Precursor 
Chemicals.--
            (1) Availability of funds.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated for fiscal year 2019 for the Department of Defense 
        by this Act for the Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat 
        Organization, $15,000,000 may be made available to the 
        Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
        State, to provide training, equipment, supplies, and services 
        to ministries and other entities of foreign governments that 
        the Secretary of Defense has identified as critical for 
        countering the flow of improvised explosive device precursor 
        chemicals.
            (2) Provision through other united states agencies.--If 
        jointly agreed upon by the Secretary of Defense and the head of 
        another department or agency of the United States Government, 
        the Secretary of Defense may transfer amounts made available 
        under paragraph (1) to such department or agency for the 
        provision by such department or agency of training, equipment, 
        supplies, and services to ministries and other entities of 
        foreign governments as described in that paragraph.
            (3) Notice to congress.--None of the funds made available 
        under paragraph (1) may be obligated or expended to supply 
        training, equipment, supplies, or services to a foreign country 
        before the date that is 15 days after the date on which the 
        Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
        State, has submitted to the congressional defense committees, 
        the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the 
        Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a 
        notice that includes each of the following:
                    (A) The name of the foreign country for which 
                training, equipment, supplies, or services are proposed 
                to be supplied.
                    (B) A description of the training, equipment, 
                supplies, and services to be provided to such foreign 
                country using such funds.
                    (C) A detailed description of the amounts proposed 
                to be obligated or expended to supply such training, 
                equipment, supplies, or services, including--
                            (i) any amounts proposed to be obligated or 
                        expended to support the participation of a 
                        department or agency of the United States 
                        Government other than the Department of 
                        Defense; and
                            (ii) a description of the training, 
                        equipment, supplies, or services proposed to be 
                        supplied.
                    (D) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the 
                efforts of such foreign country to counter the flow of 
                improvised explosive device precursor chemicals.
                    (E) An overall plan for countering the flow of 
                precursor chemicals in such foreign country.
            (4) Expiration.--The authority provided by this subsection 
        expires on December 31, 2019.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

SEC. 1601. MODIFICATIONS TO SPACE RAPID CAPABILITIES OFFICE.

    Section 2273a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``joint'';
            (2) in subsection (b), in the first sentence, by striking 
        ``Department of Defense Executive Agent for Space'' and 
        inserting ``Secretary of the Air Force'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(3) to rapidly develop and field new classified space 
        capabilities.''; and
            (4) by striking subsections (d) through (g) and inserting 
        the following new subsections (d) through (f):
    ``(d) Acquisition Authority.--The acquisition activities of the 
Office shall be subject to the following:
            ``(1) The Secretary of the Air Force shall designate the 
        acquisition executive of the Office, who shall provide 
        streamlined acquisition authority for any project of the 
        Office.
            ``(2) The Joint Capabilities Integration and Development 
        System process shall not apply to any acquisition by the 
        Office.
            ``(3) The Joint Force Space Component of the United States 
        Strategic Command shall establish, validate, and prioritize 
        program requirements.
    ``(e) Required Program Element.--
            ``(1) The Secretary of the Air Force shall ensure, within 
        budget program elements for space programs, that--
                    ``(A) there are separate, dedicated program 
                elements for unclassified and classified activities 
                relating to space rapid capabilities; and
                    ``(B) the Office executes the responsibilities of 
                the Office through those program elements.
            ``(2) The Office shall manage the program elements required 
        by paragraph (1).
    ``(f) Board of Directors.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
establish for the Office a Board of Directors (to be known as the 
`Space Rapid Capabilities Board of Directors') to provide coordination, 
oversight, and approval of projects for the Office.''.

SEC. 1602. SPACE WARFIGHTING POLICY AND REVIEW OF SPACE CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Space Warfighting Policy.--Not later than March 29, 2019, the 
Secretary of Defense shall develop a space warfighting policy.
    (b) Review of Space Capabilities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct a review 
        relating to the national security space enterprise that 
        evaluates the following:
                    (A) The resiliency of the national security space 
                enterprise with respect to a conflict.
                    (B) The ability of the national security space 
                enterprise to attribute an attack on a space system in 
                a timely manner.
                    (C) The ability of the United States--
                            (i) to resolve a conflict in space; and
                            (ii) to determine the material means by 
                        which such conflict may be resolved.
                    (D) The ability of the national security space 
                enterprise--
                            (i) to defend against aggressive behavior 
                        in space at all levels of conflict;
                            (ii) to defeat any adversary that 
                        demonstrates aggressive behavior in space at 
                        all levels of conflict;
                            (iii) to deter aggressive behavior in space 
                        at all levels of conflict; and
                            (iv) to develop a declassification 
                        strategy, if required to demonstrate 
                        deterrence.
                    (E) The effectiveness and efficiency of the 
                national security space enterprise to rapidly research, 
                develop, acquire, and deploy space capabilities and 
                capacities--
                            (i) to deter and defend United States 
                        national security space assets; and
                            (ii) to respond to any new threat to such 
                        space assets.
                    (F) The current organizational structure of the 
                national security space enterprise with respect to 
                roles, responsibilities, and authorities.
                    (G) Any emerging space threat the Secretary expects 
                the United States to confront during the 10-year period 
                beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
                    (H) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (2) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than March 29, 2019, the 
                Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
                committees a report on the findings of the review under 
                paragraph (1).
                    (B) Form.--The report under subparagraph (A) shall 
                be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
                classified annex.

SEC. 1603. REPORT ON ENHANCEMENTS TO THE GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM 
              OPERATIONAL CONTROL SEGMENT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that identifies whether the 
current Global Positioning System Operational Control Segment (OCS) can 
be incrementally improved to achieve capabilities similar to the Next 
Generation Operational Control Segment (OCX) used to operate the Global 
Positioning System III.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) A cybersecurity review of both OCS and OCX to determine 
        the specific cybersecurity improvements needed to operate the 
        system through 2030, including--
                    (A) the cybersecurity improvements to OCS needed to 
                match the cybersecurity capabilities that OCX is 
                intended to provide;
                    (B) any additional OCS cybersecurity protections 
                needed beyond those OCX is intended to provide; and
                    (C) any additional OCX cybersecurity protections 
                needed beyond those for which OCX is currently 
                contracted.
            (2) An incremental development plan for OCS, including--
                    (A) the number of additional incremental upgrades 
                needed to achieve capabilities similar to OCX, 
                including a discussion of--
                            (i) any additional capabilities needed;
                            (ii) the specific capabilities in each 
                        upgrade;
                            (iii) the duration of each upgrade; and
                            (iv) a full schedule to complete all 
                        upgrades;
                    (B) the estimated cost for each incremental OCS 
                upgrade; and
                    (C) the total estimated cost across fiscal years 
                for all OCS upgrades to achieve capabilities similar to 
                OCX and any additional capabilities.
            (3) The date by which the Department of Defense would have 
        to begin contracting for each incremental OCS upgrade to ensure 
        availability of OCS for the Global Positioning System III.
            (4) A comparison of current improvements to OCS that are 
        underway, and additional OCS incremental improvements described 
        under paragraph 2, to the program of record OCX capabilities, 
        including--
                    (A) the acquisition and sustainment cost by fiscal 
                year through fiscal year 2030 for OCS and OCX;
                    (B) a comparison schedule between OCS (including 
                incremental improvements described under paragraph 2) 
                and OCX that identifies the delivery dates and 
                capability delivered; and
                    (C) the cost and schedule required to provide OCX 
                with any additional needed capabilities that are now 
                required and not currently in the program of record.

SEC. 1604. STREAMLINE OF COMMERCIAL SPACE LAUNCH OPERATIONS.

    Section 1617 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1106; 51 U.S.C. 50918 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as 
                paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph (2):
            ``(2) Streamlining.--
                    ``(A) In general.--With respect to any licensed 
                activity under chapter 509 of title 51, United States 
                Code, the Secretary of Defense may not impose any 
                requirement on a licensee or transferee that is 
                duplicative of, or overlaps in intent with, any 
                requirement imposed by the Secretary of Transportation 
                under that chapter.
                    ``(B) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive 
                the limitation under subparagraph (A) if the Secretary 
                determines that imposing a requirement described in 
                that subparagraph is necessary to avoid negative 
                consequences for the national security space 
                program.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Effect of Law.--Nothing in this section limits the ability of 
the Secretary of Defense to consult with the Secretary of 
Transportation with respect to requirements and approvals under chapter 
509 of title 51, United States Code.''.

SEC. 1605. REUSABLE LAUNCH VEHICLES.

    (a) Reusability.--The Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle Program 
shall be designated as the ``National Security Space Launch Program''.
    (b) Reference to Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle Program.--Any 
reference in any law, regulation, guidance, instruction, map, document, 
record, or other paper of the United States to the Evolved Expendable 
Launch Vehicle Program shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
National Security Space Launch Program.
    (c) Policy.--In carrying out the policy set forth in section 2273 
of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall pursue 
a strategy that includes fully or partially reusable launch systems.
    (d) Certification Strategy.--The Secretary shall continue to 
develop a process to evaluate and certify launch vehicles using 
previously flown components or systems for national security space 
launch.
    (e) Reporting Requirement.--Not less than 60 days before the date 
on which a solicitation for procurement of space launch services is 
issued, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report that sets forth--
            (1) a determination with respect to whether launch vehicles 
        using previously flown components, or systems or with 
        components or systems that are intended to be reused, that 
        could otherwise meet mission requirements are eligible for 
        award; and
            (2) in the case of a determination that such launch 
        vehicles shall not be eligible for award, a justification with 
        respect to the reason for ineligibility.

SEC. 1606. REVIEW OF AND REPORT ON ACTIVITIES OF INTERNATIONAL SPACE 
              STATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2019, the Secretary of 
Defense shall--
            (1) in coordination with the Administrator of the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration, complete a review of each 
        program, activity, and future technology research project of 
        the Department of Defense being carried out on the 
        International Space Station as of that date; and
            (2) submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report that describes the results of the review under paragraph 
        (1).
    (b) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Science, Space, and 
        Technology of the House of Representatives.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-related Activities

SEC. 1611. FRAMEWORK ON GOVERNANCE, MISSION MANAGEMENT, RESOURCING, AND 
              EFFECTIVE OVERSIGHT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COMBAT 
              SUPPORT AGENCIES THAT ARE ALSO ELEMENTS OF THE 
              INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) Framework Required.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with section 105 of the 
        National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3038), section 193 of 
        title 10, United States Code, and section 1018 of the 
        Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 
        (Public Law 108-458; 50 U.S.C. 3023 note), the Secretary of 
        Defense shall develop and codify in policy a framework and 
        supporting processes within the Department of Defense to help 
        ensure that the missions, roles, and functions of the Combat 
        Support Agencies (CSA) of the Department of Defense that are 
        also elements of the intelligence community (IC), and other 
        intelligence components of the Department, are appropriately 
        balanced and resourced.
            (2) Scope.--The framework shall include a consistent, 
        repeatable process for regular reevaluation of the 
        responsibilities and resource profiles of the elements 
        described in paragraph (1) for purposes of preventing 
        imbalances in priorities, insufficient or misaligned resources, 
        and mission creep.
    (b) Elements.--The framework required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A lexicon of relevant terms used by the Department of 
        Defense to ensure consistent definitions are used in 
        determinations about the balance described in subsection 
        (a)(1), which lexicon shall reconcile and codify jointly-used 
        definitions.
            (2) A reevaluation of the intelligence components of the 
        Department, including the Joint Intelligence Centers and Joint 
        Intelligence Operations Centers within the combatant commands, 
        in order to determine which components should be formally 
        designated as part of the intelligence community and any 
        components not so designated conform to relevant tradecraft 
        standards.
            (3) A repeatable Department process for evaluating the 
        addition, transfer, or elimination of defense intelligence 
        missions, roles, and functions, currently or to be performed by 
        elements described in subsection (a)(1), which process shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A justification for any proposed addition, 
                transfer, or elimination of a mission, role, or 
                function.
                    (B) The identification of the elements in the 
                Federal Government, if any, that currently perform the 
                mission, role, or function concerned.
                    (C) For any proposed addition of a mission, role, 
                or function, an assessment of the most appropriate 
                element of the Department to assume it, taking into 
                account current resource profiles, scope of existing 
                responsibilities, primary customers, and infrastructure 
                necessary to support the addition.
                    (D) For any proposed addition of transfer of a 
                mission, role, or function--
                            (i) a determination of the appropriate 
                        resource profile for such mission, role, or 
                        function; and
                            (ii) the identification, in writing, for 
                        the Department elements concerned of the 
                        resources anticipated to be needed and source 
                        of such resources within the future-years 
                        defense program in effect at the time of the 
                        proposed addition or transfer.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a briefing on the framework required by 
subsection (a).
    (d) Policy.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report setting forth the policy that codifies 
the framework required by subsection (a).
    (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-related Matters

                      PART I--CYBERSPACE GENERALLY

SEC. 1621. POLICY OF THE UNITED STATES ON CYBERSPACE, CYBERSECURITY, 
              CYBER WARFARE, AND CYBER DETERRENCE.

    (a) In General.--It shall be the policy of the United States, with 
respect to matters pertaining to cyberspace, cybersecurity, and cyber 
warfare, that the United States should employ all instruments of 
national power, including the use of offensive cyber capabilities, to 
deter if possible, and respond when necessary, to any and all cyber 
attacks or other malicious cyber activities that target United States 
interests with the intent to--
            (1) cause casualties among United States persons or persons 
        of our allies;
            (2) significantly disrupt the normal functioning of United 
        States democratic society or government (including attacks 
        against critical infrastructure that could damage systems used 
        to provide key services to the public or government);
            (3) threaten the command and control of the United States 
        Armed Forces, the freedom of maneuver of the United States 
        Armed Forces, or the industrial base or other infrastructure on 
        which the United States Armed Forces rely to defend United 
        States interests and commitments; or
            (4) achieve an effect, whether individually or in 
        aggregate, comparable to an armed attack or imperil a vital 
        interest of the United States.
    (b) Response Options.--In carrying out the policy set forth in 
subsection (a), the United States shall plan, develop, and demonstrate 
response options to address the full range of potential cyber attacks 
on United States interests that could be conducted by potential 
adversaries of the United States.
    (c) Denial Options.--In carrying out the policy set forth in 
subsection (a) through response options developed pursuant to 
subsection (b), the United States shall, to the greatest extent 
practicable, prioritize the defensibility and resiliency against cyber 
attacks and malicious cyber activities described in subsection (a) of 
infrastructure critical to the political integrity, economic security, 
and national security of the United States.
    (d) Cost-imposition Options.--In carrying out the policy set forth 
in subsection (a) through response options developed pursuant to 
subsection (b), the United States shall develop and demonstrate, or 
otherwise make known to adversaries of the existence of, cyber 
capabilities to impose costs on any foreign power targeting the United 
States or United States persons with a cyber attack or malicious cyber 
activity described in subsection (a).
    (e) Multi-prong Response.--In carrying out the policy set forth in 
subsection (a) through response options developed pursuant to 
subsection (b), the United States shall--
            (1) devote immediate and sustained attention to boosting 
        the cyber resilience of critical United States strike systems 
        (including cyber, nuclear, and non-nuclear systems) in order to 
        ensure the United States can credibly threaten to impose 
        unacceptable costs in response to even the most sophisticated 
        large-scale cyber attack;
            (2) develop offensive cyber capabilities and specific plans 
        and strategies to put at risk targets most valued by 
        adversaries of the United States and their key decision makers;
            (3) enhance attribution capabilities to reduce the time 
        required to positively attribute an attack with high 
        confidence; and
            (4) develop intelligence and offensive cyber capabilities 
        to detect, disrupt, and potentially expose malicious cyber 
        activities.
    (f) Policies Relating to Offensive Cyber Capabilities and 
Sovereignty.--It is the policy of the United States that, when a cyber 
attack or malicious cyber activity transits or otherwise relies upon 
the networks or infrastructure of a third country--
            (1) the United States shall, to the greatest extent 
        practicable, notify and encourage the government of that 
        country to take action to eliminate the threat; and
            (2) if the government is unable or unwilling to take 
        action, the United States reserves the right to act 
        unilaterally (with the consent of that government if possible, 
        but without such consent if necessary).
    (g) Authority of Secretary of Defense.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense has the authority 
        to develop, prepare, coordinate, and, when appropriately 
        authorized to do so, conduct military cyber operations in 
        response to cyber attacks and malicious cyber activities 
        described in subsection (a) that are carried out against the 
        United States or United States persons by a foreign power.
            (2) Delegation of additional authorities.--The Secretary 
        may delegate to the Commander of the United States Cyber 
        Command such authorities of the Secretaries of the military 
        departments, including authorities relating to manning, 
        training, and equipping, that the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
            (3) Use of delegated authorities.--The use by the Commander 
        of the United States Cyber Command of any authority delegated 
        to the Commander pursuant to this subsection shall be subject 
        to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary.
            (4) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
        be construed to limit the authority of the President or 
        Congress to authorize the use of military force.
    (h) Foreign Power Defined.--In this section, the term ``foreign 
power'' has the meaning given that term in section 101 of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801).

SEC. 1622. AFFIRMING THE AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO 
              CONDUCT MILITARY ACTIVITIES AND OPERATIONS IN CYBERSPACE.

    Section 130g of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary'';
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(b) Affirmation of Authority.--(1) Congress affirms that the 
Secretary of Defense may conduct military activities or operations in 
cyberspace, including clandestine military activities or operations in 
cyberspace, to defend the United States and allies and interests of the 
United States, including in response to malicious cyber activity 
carried out against the United States or a United States person by a 
foreign power.
    ``(2) Congress affirms that the authority referred to in paragraph 
(1) includes the conduct of military activities or operations in 
cyberspace short of war and in areas outside of named areas of conflict 
for the purpose of preparation of the environment, influence, force 
protection, and deterrence of hostilities, or counterterrorism 
operations involving the armed forces of the United States.
    ``(c) Clandestine Activities or Operations.--A clandestine military 
activity or operation in cyberspace shall be considered a traditional 
military activity for the purposes of section 503(e)(2) of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3093(e)(2)).
    ``(d) Congressional Oversight.--The Secretary shall brief the 
congressional defense committees about any military activities or 
operations in cyberspace, including clandestine military activities or 
operations in cyberspace, occurring during the previous quarter during 
the quarterly briefing required by section 484 of this title.
    ``(e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit the authority of the Secretary to conduct military 
activities or operations in cyberspace, including clandestine 
activities or operations in cyberspace, or to alter or otherwise affect 
the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541-1548), the Authorization for 
Use of Military Force (Public Law 107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note), or 
reporting of sensitive military cyber activities or operations required 
by section 130j of this title.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `clandestine military activity or operation 
        in cyberspace' means a military activity or operation carried 
        out in cyberspace, or associated preparatory actions, 
        authorized by the President or the Secretary that--
                    ``(A) is marked by, held in, or conducted with 
                secrecy, where the intent is that the activity or 
                operation will not be apparent or acknowledged 
                publicly; and
                    ``(B) is to be carried out--
                            ``(i) as part of a military operation plan 
                        approved by the President or the Secretary in 
                        anticipation of hostilities or as directed by 
                        the President or the Secretary against--
                                    ``(I) adversaries (as defined by 
                                the National Security Strategy); or
                                    ``(II) other emergent national 
                                security threats;
                            ``(ii) to deter, safeguard, or defend 
                        against attacks or malicious cyber activities 
                        against the United States or Department of 
                        Defense information, networks, systems, 
                        installations, facilities, or other assets; or
                            ``(iii) in support of other information 
                        related capabilities such as military deception 
                        and psychological operations.
            ``(2) The term `foreign power' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 101 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance 
        Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801).
            ``(3) The term `United States person' has the meaning given 
        such term in such section.''; and
            (3) in subsection (a), as designated by paragraph (1), by 
        striking ``(as'' and all that follows through ``))''.

SEC. 1623. ACTIVE DEFENSE AND SURVEILLANCE AGAINST RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
              ATTACKS IN CYBERSPACE.

    (a) Authority to Disrupt, Defeat, and Deter Cyber Attacks.--
            (1) In general.--In the event that the National Command 
        Authority determines that the Russian Federation is conducting 
        an active, systematic, and ongoing campaign of attacks against 
        the government or people of the United States in cyberspace, 
        the National Command Authority may authorize the Commander of 
        the United States Cyber Command, acting through the Cyber 
        Mission Forces assigned to the United States Cyber Command, to 
        take appropriate and proportional action in cyberspace to 
        disrupt, defeat, and deter such attacks under the authority and 
        policy of the Secretary of Defense to conduct cyber operations 
        and information operations as traditional military activities.
            (2) Notification and reporting.--
                    (A) Notification of operations.--IN exercising the 
                authority provided in paragraph (1), the Secretary 
                shall provide notices to the congressional defense 
                committees in accordance with section 130(f) of title 
                10, United States Code.
                    (B) Quarterly reports by commander of the united 
                states cyber command.--
                            (i) In general.--In any fiscal year in 
                        which the Commander of the United States Cyber 
                        Command carries out an action under paragraph 
                        (1), the Secretary of Defense shall, not less 
                        frequently than quarterly, submit to the 
                        congressional defense committees a report on 
                        the actions of the Commander under such 
                        paragraph in such fiscal year.
                            (ii) Manner of reporting.--Reports 
                        submitted under clause (i) shall be submitted 
                        in a manner that is consistent with the 
                        recurring quarterly report required by section 
                        484 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Surveillance.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
        the Commander of the United States Cyber Command and the cyber 
        mission forces of such command, may conduct surveillance in 
        networks outside the United States of personnel and 
        organizations engaged at the behest or in support of the 
        Russian Federation in--
                    (A) stealing and releasing confidential information 
                from United States persons or supporting organizations 
                who are campaigning for public office;
                    (B) generating and planting information and 
                narratives, including the purchase of advertisements, 
                in social and other media intended to mislead, sharpen 
                social and political conflicts, or otherwise manipulate 
                perceptions and opinions of the people of the United 
                States;
                    (C) creating networks of subverted computers and 
                associated false accounts on social media platforms for 
                the purpose of spreading and amplifying the impact of 
                information and narratives intended to mislead, sharpen 
                social and political conflicts, or otherwise manipulate 
                perceptions and opinions of the people of the United 
                States; and
                    (D) developing or using cyber capabilities--
                            (i) to disable, disrupt, or destroy 
                        critical infrastructure of the United States; 
                        or
                            (ii) to cause--
                                    (I) casualties among United States 
                                persons or persons of allies of the 
                                United States;
                                    (II) significant damage to private 
                                or public property;
                                    (III) significant economic 
                                disruption;
                                    (IV) an effect, whether 
                                individually or in aggregate, 
                                comparable to that of an armed attack 
                                or one that imperils a vital national 
                                security interest of the United States; 
                                or
                                    (V) significant disruption of the 
                                normal functioning of United States 
                                democratic society or government, 
                                including attacks against or incidents 
                                involving critical infrastructure that 
                                could damage systems used to provide 
                                key services to the public or 
                                government.
            (2) Private sector cooperation.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall make 
                arrangements, directly or through other government 
                organizations, with private sector media 
                representatives and organizations, including social 
                media companies, on a voluntary basis, using the 
                results of the surveillance under paragraph (1) to 
                assist in the identification of such malicious 
                individuals and organizations and associated false or 
                counterfeit accounts created on social media platforms.
                    (B) Security clearances.--In carrying out 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary may grant such security 
                clearances to individuals of media organizations as the 
                Secretary considers necessary and appropriate to share 
                evidence that supports the Secretary's conclusions 
                regarding the individuals and organizations engaged in 
                the activities described in paragraph (1).
    (c) Annual Report.--Not less frequently than once each year, the 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees and the 
congressional intelligence committees (as defined in section 3 of the 
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)) a report on--
            (1) the scope and intensity of the Russian Federation's 
        information operations and attacks through cyberspace against 
        the government or people of the United States observed by the 
        cyber mission forces of the United States Cyber Command and the 
        National Security Agency;
            (2) adjustments of the Department of Defense in the 
        response directed or recommended by the Secretary with respect 
        to such operations and attacks; and
            (3) whether the authorities under subsections (a) and (b) 
        should be expanded to include other foreign powers, such as the 
        Islamic Republic of Iran and the People's Republic of China.

SEC. 1624. REORGANIZATION AND CONSOLIDATION OF CERTAIN CYBER 
              PROVISIONS.

    (a) In General.--Part I of subtitle A of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by transferring sections 130g, 130j, and 130k to 
        chapter 19; and
            (2) in chapter 19, by redesignating sections 130g, 130j, 
        and 130k, as transferred by subparagraph (A), as sections 394, 
        395, and 396, respectively.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 108(m) of the Cybersecurity 
Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1507(m)) is amended by 
striking ``under section 130g'' and inserting ``under section 394''.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--(1) The table of sections at the 
beginning of chapter 3 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking the items relating to sections 130g, 130j, and 130k.
    (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 19 of such 
title is amended by adding at the end the following new items:

``394. Authorities concerning military cyber operations.
``395. Notification requirements for sensitive military cyber 
                            operations.
``396. Notification requirements for cyber weapons.''.

SEC. 1625. DESIGNATION OF OFFICIAL FOR MATTERS RELATING TO INTEGRATING 
              CYBERSECURITY AND INDUSTRIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS WITHIN THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Designation of Integrating Official.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall designate one official to be responsible for matters relating to 
integrating cybersecurity and industrial control systems within the 
Department of Defense.
    (b) Responsibilities.--The official designated pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall be responsible for matters described in such 
subsection at all levels of command, from the Department to the 
facility using industrial control systems, including developing 
Department-wide certification standards for integration of industrial 
control systems and taking into consideration frameworks set forth by 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology for the 
cybersecurity of such systems.

SEC. 1626. ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL MANUFACTURERS IN THE DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL 
              SUPPLY CHAIN ON MATTERS RELATING TO CYBERSECURITY.

    (a) Dissemination of Cybersecurity Resources.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering, in consultation with the Director of 
        the National Institute of Standards and Technology, shall take 
        such actions as may be necessary to enhance awareness of 
        cybersecurity threats among small manufacturers in the defense 
        industrial supply chain.
            (2) Priority.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Research 
        and Engineering shall prioritize efforts to increase awareness 
        to help reduce cybersecurity risks faced by small manufacturers 
        described in paragraph (1).
            (3) Sector focus.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering shall carry out this subsection with a 
        focus on such industry sectors as the Under Secretary considers 
        critical.
            (4) Outreach events.--Under paragraph (1), the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering shall conduct 
        outreach to support activities consistent with this section. 
        Such outreach may include live events with a physical presence 
        and outreach conducted through Internet websites.
    (b) Voluntary Cybersecurity Self-assessments.--The Under Secretary 
of Defense for Research and Engineering shall develop mechanisms to 
provide assistance to help small manufacturers conduct voluntary self-
assessments in order to understand operating environments, 
cybersecurity requirements, and existing vulnerabilities, including 
through the Mentor Protege Program, small business programs, and 
engagements with defense laboratories and test ranges.
    (c) Transfer of Research Findings and Expertise.--
            (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering shall promote the transfer of 
        appropriate technology and techniques developed in the 
        Department of Defense to small manufacturers throughout the 
        United States to implement security measures that are adequate 
        to protect covered defense information, including controlled 
        unclassified information.
            (2) Coordination with other federal expertise and 
        capabilities.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering shall coordinate efforts, when appropriate, with 
        the expertise and capabilities that exist in Federal agencies 
        and federally sponsored laboratories.
            (3) Agreements.--In carrying out this subsection, the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering may enter 
        into agreements with private industry, institutes of higher 
        education, or a State, United States territory, local, or 
        tribal government to ensure breadth and depth of coverage to 
        the United States defense industrial base and to leverage 
        resources.
    (d) Defense Acquisition Workforce Cyber Training Program.--The 
Secretary of Defense shall establish a cyber counseling certification 
program, or approve a similar existing program, to certify small 
business professionals and other relevant acquisition staff within the 
Department of Defense to provide cyber planning assistance to small 
manufacturers in the defense industrial supply chain.
    (e) Authorities.--In executing this program, the Secretary may use 
the following authorities:
            (1) The Manufacturing Technology Program established under 
        section 2521 of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) The Centers for Science, Technology, and Engineering 
        Partnership program under section 2368 of title 10, United 
        States Code.
            (3) The Manufacturing Engineering Education Program 
        established under section 2196 of title 10, United States Code.
            (4) The Small Business Innovation Research program.
            (5) The mentor-protege program.
            (6) Other legal authorities as the Secretary deems 
        necessary for the effective and efficient execution of the 
        program.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Resources.--The term ``resources'' means guidelines, 
        tools, best practices, standards, methodologies, and other ways 
        of providing information.
            (2) Small business concern.--The term ``small business 
        concern'' means a small business concern as that term is used 
        in section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
            (3) Small manufacturer.--The term ``small manufacturer'' 
        means a small business concern that is a manufacturer.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, Territories, and possessions of the United States, the 
        District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

SEC. 1627. MODIFICATION OF ACQUISITION AUTHORITY OF THE COMMANDER OF 
              THE UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND.

    (a) Modification of Limitation on Use of Cyber Operations 
Procurement Fund.--Subsection (e) of section 807 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 
U.S.C. 2224 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$75,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$250,000,000''; and
            (2) by striking ``2021'' and inserting ``2025''.
    (b) Extension on Sunset.--Subsection (i)(1) of such section is 
amended by striking ``September 30, 2021'' and inserting ``September 
30, 2025''.

SEC. 1628. EMAIL AND INTERNET WEBSITE SECURITY AND AUTHENTICATION.

    (a) Implementation of Plan Required.--Except as provided by 
subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement 
the plan outlined in Binding Operational Directive 18-01, issued by the 
Secretary of Homeland Security on October 16, 2017, relating to email 
security and authentication and Internet website security, according to 
the schedule established by the Binding Operational Directive for the 
rest of the Executive Branch beginning with the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (b) Elements.--The actions required of the Secretary of Defense 
under subsection (a) include the following:
            (1) The adoption of the START Transport Layer Security 
        (STARTTLS) protocol for encryption.
            (2) Enforcement of Sender Policy Framework (SPF), Domain 
        Keys Identified Mail (DKIM), and Domain-based Message 
        Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance (DMARC) for email 
        authentication.
            (3) Implementation of Hypertext Transfer Protocol Strict 
        Transport Security (HSTS).
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the requirements of subsection 
(a) if the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees a 
certification that existing or planned security measures for the 
Department of Defense either meet or exceed the information security 
requirements of Binding Operational Directive 18-01.
    (d) Future Binding Operational Directives.--The Chief Information 
Officer of the Department of Defense shall notify the congressional 
defense committees within 180 days of the issuance by the Secretary of 
Homeland Security after the date of the enactment of this Act of any 
Binding Operational Directive for cybersecurity whether the Department 
of Defense will comply with the Directive or how the Department of 
Defense plans to meet or exceed the security objectives of the 
Directive.

SEC. 1629. MATTERS PERTAINING TO THE SHARKSEER CYBERSECURITY PROGRAM.

    (a) Transfer of Program.--Not later than March 1, 2019, the 
Secretary of Defense shall transfer the Sharkseer cybersecurity program 
from the National Security Agency to the Defense Information Systems 
Agency, including all associated funding and, as the Secretary 
considers necessary, personnel.
    (b) Limitation on Funding for the Information Systems Security 
Program.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal year 2019 or any subsequent fiscal 
year for research, development, test, and evaluation for the 
Information Systems Security Program for the National Security Agency, 
not more than 90 percent may be obligated or expended unless the 
Principal Cyber Advisor certifies to the congressional defense 
committees that the operations and maintenance funding for the 
Sharkseer program for fiscal year 2019 and the subsequent fiscal years 
of the current Future Years Defense Program are available or 
programmed.
    (c) Sharkseer Break and Inspect Capability.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
        the decryption capability described in section 1636 of the Carl 
        Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291) is 
        provided by the break and inspect subsystem of the Sharkseer 
        cybersecurity program, unless the Principal Cyber Advisor 
        notifies the congressional defense committees on or before the 
        date that is 90 days after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act that a superior enterprise solution will be operational 
        before October 1, 2019.
            (2) Integration of capability.--The Secretary shall take 
        such actions as are necessary to integrate the break and 
        inspect subsystem of the Sharkseer cybersecurity program with 
        the Department of Defense public key infrastructure.
    (d) Visibility to Endpoints.--The Secretary shall take such actions 
as are necessary to enable, by October 1, 2020, the Sharkseer 
cybersecurity program and computer network defense service providers to 
instantly and automatically determine the specific identity and 
location of computer hosts and other endpoints that received or sent 
malware detected by the Sharkseer cybersecurity program or other 
network perimeter defenses.
    (e) Sandbox as a Service.--The Secretary shall use the Sharkseer 
cybersecurity program sandbox-as-a-service capability as an enterprise 
solution and terminate all other such projects, unless the Principal 
Cyber Advisor notifies the congressional defense committees on or 
before the date that is 90 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act that a superior enterprise solution will be operational before 
October 1, 2019.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations for Bandwidth Expansion.--There 
is authorized to be appropriated $20,000,000 for procurement, defense-
wide, for the Defense Information Systems Agency to increase the 
bandwidth of the Sharkseer cybersecurity program to match the bandwidth 
of communications entering the Internet access points of the Department 
of Defense.

SEC. 1630. PILOT PROGRAM ON MODELING AND SIMULATION IN SUPPORT OF 
              MILITARY HOMELAND DEFENSE OPERATIONS IN CONNECTION WITH 
              CYBER ATTACKS ON CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Pilot Program Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
        Homeland Defense and Global Security shall carry out a pilot 
        program that uses the results of research exercises of local 
        government, industry, and military responses to combined 
        natural disasters and cyber attacks on critical infrastructure 
        in order to identify and develop means of improving such 
        responses to such combined disasters and attacks.
            (2) Discharge.--The Assistant Secretary shall carry out the 
        pilot program through the United States Northern Command and 
        the United States Cyber Command.
            (3) Research exercises.--The pilot program shall be based 
        on lessons learned from the so-called ``Jack Voltaic'' research 
        exercises conducted by the Army Cyber Institute, industry 
        partners of the Institute, and New York, New York, and Houston, 
        Texas.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the pilot program shall be to 
accomplish the following:
            (1) The development and demonstration of risk analysis 
        methodologies, and the application of commercial simulation and 
        modeling capabilities, based on artificial intelligence and 
        hyperscale cloud computing technologies, for use by the Federal 
        Governments, States, and localities, as applicable--
                    (A) to assess defense critical infrastructure 
                vulnerabilities and interdependencies to improve 
                military resiliency;
                    (B) to determine the likely effectiveness of 
                attacks described in subsection (a)(1), and 
                countermeasures, tactics, and tools supporting 
                responsive military homeland defense operations;
                    (C) to train personnel in incident response;
                    (D) to conduct exercises and test scenarios; and
                    (E) to foster collaboration and learning between 
                and among departments and agencies of the Federal 
                Government, State and local governments, and private 
                entities responsible for critical infrastructure.
            (2) The development and demonstration of the foundations 
        for establishing and maintaining a program of record for a 
        shared high-fidelity, interactive, affordable, cloud-based 
        modeling and simulation of critical infrastructure systems and 
        incident response capabilities that can simulate complex cyber 
        and physical attacks and disruptions on individual and multiple 
        sectors on national, regional, State, and local scales.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--At the same time the budget of the 
        President for fiscal year 2020 is submitted to Congress 
        pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, 
        the Assistant Secretary shall, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security, submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report on the pilot program.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of the results of the exercises 
                described in subsection (a)(3) and any other exercises 
                conducted as part of the pilot program as of the date 
                of the report.
                    (B) A list of the cybersecurity units of the 
                National Guard and Reserves, and a description and 
                assessment of the progress of the Assistant Secretary 
                and the National Governors' Association in promoting 
                multi-State mutual assistance compacts to share 
                resources with respect to combined natural disaster and 
                cyber attacks described in subsection (a)(1) as well as 
                an assessment of how the National Guard's ability to 
                operate under dual jurisdictions and their existing 
                relationships at the State and local level could be 
                used in these types of events.
                    (C) A description of the risk analysis 
                methodologies and modeling and simulation capabilities 
                developed and demonstrated pursuant to the pilot 
                program, and an assessment of the potential for future 
                growth of commercial technology in support of the 
                homeland defense mission of the Department of Defense.
                    (D) Such recommendations as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate regarding the establishment of a program of 
                record for the Department on further development and 
                sustainment of risk analysis methodologies and 
                advanced, large-scale modeling and simulation on 
                critical infrastructure and cyber warfare.
                    (E) Lessons learned from the use of novel risk 
                analysis methodologies and large-scale modeling and 
                simulation carried out under the pilot program 
                regarding vulnerabilities, required capabilities, and 
                reconfigured force structure, coordination practices, 
                and policy.
                    (F) Planned steps for implementing the lessons 
                described in subparagraph (E).
    (d) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2019 by section 201 for research, development, test, and 
evaluation for the Army and available for Advanced Concepts and 
Simulation (Program Element (62308A)), $10,000,000 may be available for 
the pilot program.

SEC. 1631. SECURITY PRODUCT INTEGRATION FRAMEWORK.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Department of Defense requires a standard, 
        enterprise-wide, security product integration framework (SPIF) 
        that provides a machine-to-machine data exchange architecture 
        and protocol to achieve interoperability and automated 
        orchestration and coordinated action between and among 
        cybersecurity services, devices, appliances, agents, 
        applications, tools, and command and control centers.
            (2) Information security products and services need to be 
        engineered to consume and act on information, direction, and 
        cues from other security elements on a network through this 
        framework.
            (3) A security product integration framework should ideally 
        be non-proprietary or designed as a modular open system.
            (4) A security integration framework is essential to 
        achieve the speed, scale, and agility of response required for 
        cyber warfare, and to reduce the cost and time needed to 
        integrate new products and services into the existing security 
        environment.
    (b) Demonstration Program.--The Principal Cyber Adviser, the Chief 
Information Officer, and the Commander of the United States Cyber 
Command shall select a network or network segment and associated 
computer network defense service provider to conduct a demonstration 
and evaluation of one or more existing security product integration 
frameworks, including modifying network security systems to enable such 
systems to ingest, publish, subscribe, tip and cue, and request 
information or services from each other.

SEC. 1632. REPORT ON ENHANCEMENT OF SOFTWARE SECURITY FOR CRITICAL 
              SYSTEMS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than March 1, 2019, the Principal 
Cyber Adviser to the Secretary of Defense and the Chief Information 
Officer of the Department of Defense shall jointly submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on a study, based on the 
authorities specified in subsection (b), on the costs, benefits, 
technical merits, and other merits of applying the technology described 
in subsection (c) to the vulnerability assessment and remediation of 
the following:
            (1) Nuclear systems and nuclear command and control.
            (2) A critical subset of conventional power projection 
        capabilities.
            (3) Cyber command and control.
            (4) Other defense critical infrastructure
    (b) Basis for Conduct of Study.--The study required for purposes of 
subsection (a) shall be conducted pursuant to the following:
            (1) Section 1640 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91).
            (2) Section 1650 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. 2224 note).
            (3) Section 1647 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1118).
    (c) Technologies.--The technologies described in this subsection 
are the following:
            (1) Technology developed and used by Combat Support 
        Agencies of the Department of Defense to discover flaws and 
        weaknesses in software code by inputting immense quantities of 
        pseudo-random data (commonly referred to as ``fuzz'') to 
        identify inputs that cause the software to fail.
            (2) Cloud-based software fuzzing-as-a-service to 
        continuously test the security of Department of Defense 
        software repositories at large scale.
            (3) Formal programming and protocol language for software 
        code development and other methods and tools developed under 
        the High Assurance Cyber Military Systems program of the 
        Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
            (4) The binary analysis and symbolic execution software 
        security tools developed under the Cyber Grand Challenge of the 
        Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.

SEC. 1633. COMPLY TO CONNECT AND CYBERSECURITY SCORECARD.

    (a) Limitation.--After October 1, 2019, no funds may be obligated 
or expended to prepare the cybersecurity scorecard for the Secretary of 
Defense unless the Department of Defense is implementing a funded 
capability to meet the requirements--
            (1) established by the Chief Information Officer and the 
        Commander of United States Cyber Command pursuant to section 
        1653 of the National Defense Authorization for Fiscal Year 2017 
        (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note); and
            (2) set forth in the Information Security Continuous 
        Monitoring Strategy, the Comply-to-Connect Strategy, the 
        Enterprise Patch Management Service Strategy and Concept of 
        Operations, and the User Activity Monitoring Strategy.
    (b) Report.--Not later than January 10, 2019, the Director of Cost 
Assessment and Program Evaluation shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report comparing the current capabilities of the 
Department of Defense to--
            (1) the requirements described in subsection (a); and
            (2) the capabilities deployed by the Department of Homeland 
        Security and the General Services Administration under the 
        Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation program across the non-
        Department of Defense departments and agencies of the Federal 
        Government.
    (c) Risk Thresholds.--The Chief Information Officer of the 
Department of Defense, in coordination with the Principal Cyber 
Advisor, the Director of Operations of the Joint Staff, and the 
Commander of United States Cyber Command, shall establish risk 
thresholds for systems and network operations that, when exceeded, 
would trigger heightened security measures, such as enhanced monitoring 
and access policy changes.
    (d) Enterprise Governance, Risk, and Compliance Plan.--Not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief 
Information Officer and the Principal Cyber Advisor shall develop a 
plan to implement an enterprise governance, risk, and compliance 
platform and process to maintain current status of all information and 
operational technology assets, vulnerabilities, threats, and 
mitigations.

SEC. 1634. CYBERSPACE SOLARIUM COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established a commission to 
        develop a consensus on a strategic approach to protecting the 
        crucial advantages of the United States in cyberspace against 
        the attempts of adversaries to erode such advantages.
            (2) Designation.--The commission established under 
        paragraph (1) shall be known as the ``Cyberspace Solarium 
        Commission'' (in this section the ``Commission'').
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) Composition.--(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
        Commission shall be composed of 13 members, as follows:
                    (i) The Principal Deputy Director of National 
                Intelligence.
                    (ii) The Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security.
                    (iii) The Deputy Secretary of Defense.
                    (iv) Three members appointed by the majority leader 
                of the Senate, in consultation with the Chairman of the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the Senate, one of whom 
                shall be a member of the Senate and two of whom shall 
                not be.
                    (v) Two members appointed by the minority leader of 
                the Senate, in consultation with the Ranking Member of 
                the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate, one of 
                whom shall be a member of the Senate and one of whom 
                shall not be.
                    (vi) Three members appointed by the Speaker of the 
                House of Representatives, in consultation with the 
                Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services of the 
                House of Representatives, one of whom shall be a member 
                of the House of Representatives and two of whom shall 
                not be.
                    (vii) Two members appointed by the minority leader 
                of the House of Representatives, in consultation with 
                the Ranking Member of the Committee on Armed Services 
                of the House of Representatives, one of whom shall be a 
                member of the House of Representatives and one of whom 
                shall not be.
            (B)(i) The members of the Commission who are not members of 
        Congress and who are appointed under clauses (iv) through (vii) 
        of subparagraph (A) shall be individuals who are nationally 
        recognized for expertise, knowledge, or experience in--
                    (I) cyber strategy or national-level strategies to 
                combat long-term adversaries;
                    (II) cyber technology and innovation;
                    (III) use of intelligence information by national 
                policymakers and military leaders; or
                    (IV) the implementation, funding, or oversight of 
                the national security policies of the United States.
            (ii) An official who appoints members of the Commission may 
        not appoint an individual as a member of the Commission if, in 
        the judgment of the official, such individual possesses any 
        personal or financial interest in the discharge of any of the 
        duties of the Commission.
            (iii) All members of the Commission described in clause (i) 
        shall possess an appropriate security clearance in accordance 
        with applicable provisions of law concerning the handling of 
        classified information.
            (2) Co-chairs.--(A) The Commission shall have two co-
        chairs, selected from among the members of the Commission.
            (B) One co-chair of the Commission shall be a member of the 
        Democratic Party, and one co-chair shall be a member of the 
        Republican Party.
            (C) The individuals who serve as the co-chairs of the 
        Commission shall be jointly agreed upon by the President, the 
        majority leader of the Senate, the minority leader of the 
        Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the 
        minority leader of the House of Representatives.
    (c) Appointment; Initial Meeting.--
            (1) Appointment.--Members of the Commission shall be 
        appointed not later than 45 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) Initial meeting.--The Commission shall hold its initial 
        meeting on or before the date that is 60 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Meetings; Quorum; Vacancies.--
            (1) In general.--After its initial meeting, the Commission 
        shall meet upon the call of the co-chairs of the Commission.
            (2) Quorum.--Seven members of the Commission shall 
        constitute a quorum for purposes of conducting business, except 
        that two members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum 
        for purposes of receiving testimony.
            (3) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Commission shall not 
        affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner in 
        which the original appointment was made.
            (4) Quorum with vacancies.--If vacancies in the Commission 
        occur on any day after 45 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, a quorum shall consist of a majority of the 
        members of the Commission as of such day.
    (e) Actions of Commission.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall act by resolution 
        agreed to by a majority of the members of the Commission voting 
        and present.
            (2) Panels.--The Commission may establish panels composed 
        of less than the full membership of the Commission for purposes 
        of carrying out the duties of the Commission under this title. 
        The actions of any such panel shall be subject to the review 
        and control of the Commission. Any findings and determinations 
        made by such a panel shall not be considered the findings and 
        determinations of the Commission unless approved by the 
        Commission.
            (3) Delegation.--Any member, agent, or staff of the 
        Commission may, if authorized by the co-chairs of the 
        Commission, take any action which the Commission is authorized 
        to take pursuant to this title.
    (f) Duties.--The duties of the Commission are as follows:
            (1) To weigh the costs and benefits of various strategic 
        options to reach the goal of protecting the advantages 
        described in subsection (a)(1), including the political system 
        of the United States, the national security industrial sector 
        of the United States, and the innovation base of the United 
        States. The options to be assessed should include deterrence, 
        norms-based regimes, and cyber persistence.
            (2) To review adversarial strategies and intentions, 
        current programs for the protection of advantages described in 
        subsection (a)(1), and the capabilities of the Federal 
        Government to understand if and how adversaries are currently 
        being deterred or thwarted in their aims and ambitions.
            (3) To evaluate the current allocation of resources for 
        understanding adversarial strategies and intentions and 
        protecting the advantages described in subsection (a)(1).
            (4) In weighing the options for protecting advantages as 
        described in subsection (a)(1), to consider possible structures 
        and authorities that need to be established, revised, or 
        augmented within the Federal Government.
    (g) Powers of Commission.--
            (1) In general.--(A) The Commission or, on the 
        authorization of the Commission, any subcommittee or member 
        thereof, may, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of 
        this section--
                    (i) hold such hearings and sit and act at such 
                times and places, take such testimony, receive such 
                evidence, and administer such oaths; and
                    (ii) require, by subpoena or otherwise, the 
                attendance and testimony of such witnesses and the 
                production of such books, records, correspondence, 
                memoranda, papers, and documents, as the Commission or 
                such designated subcommittee or designated member 
                considers necessary.
            (B) Subpoenas may be issued under subparagraph (A)(ii) 
        under the signature of the co-chairs of the Commission, and may 
        be served by any person designated by such co-chairs.
            (C) The provisions of sections 102 through 104 of the 
        Revised Statutes of the United States (2 U.S.C. 192-194) shall 
        apply in the case of any failure of a witness to comply with 
        any subpoena or to testify when summoned under authority of 
        this section.
            (2) Contracting.--The Commission may, to such extent and in 
        such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriation Acts, 
        enter into contracts to enable the Commission to discharge its 
        duties under this title.
            (3) Information from federal agencies.--(A) The Commission 
        may secure directly from any executive department, agency, 
        bureau, board, commission, office, independent establishment, 
        or instrumentality of the Government information, suggestions, 
        estimates, and statistics for the purposes of this title.
            (B) Each such department, agency, bureau, board, 
        commission, office, establishment, or instrumentality shall, to 
        the extent authorized by law, furnish such information, 
        suggestions, estimates, and statistics directly to the 
        Commission, upon request of the co-chairs of the Commission.
            (C) The Commission shall handle and protect all classified 
        information provided to it under this section in accordance 
        with applicable statutes and regulations.
            (4) Assistance from federal agencies.--(A) The Secretary of 
        Defense shall provide to the Commission, on a nonreimbursable 
        basis, such administrative services, funds, staff, facilities, 
        and other support services as are necessary for the performance 
        of the Commission's duties under this title.
            (B) The Director of National Intelligence may provide the 
        Commission, on a nonreimbursable basis, with such 
        administrative services, staff, and other support services as 
        the Commission may request.
            (C) In addition to the assistance set forth in paragraphs 
        (1) and (2), other departments and agencies of the United 
        States may provide the Commission such services, funds, 
        facilities, staff, and other support as such departments and 
        agencies consider advisable and as may be authorized by law.
            (D) The Commission shall receive the full and timely 
        cooperation of any official, department, or agency of the 
        United States Government whose assistance is necessary for the 
        fulfillment of the duties of the Commission under this title, 
        including the provision of full and current briefings and 
        analyses.
            (5) Prohibition on withholding information.--No department 
        or agency of the Government may withhold information from the 
        Commission on the grounds that providing the information to the 
        Commission would constitute the unauthorized disclosure of 
        classified information or information relating to intelligence 
        sources or methods.
            (6) Postal services.--The Commission may use the United 
        States postal services in the same manner and under the same 
        conditions as the departments and agencies of the United 
        States.
            (7) Gifts.--The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of 
        gifts or donations of services or property in carrying out its 
        duties under this title.
    (h) Staff of Commission.--
            (1) In general.--(A) The co-chairs of the Commission, in 
        accordance with rules agreed upon by the Commission, shall 
        appoint and fix the compensation of a staff director and such 
        other personnel as may be necessary to enable the Commission to 
        carry out its duties, without regard to the provisions of title 
        5, United States Code, governing appointments in the 
        competitive service, and without regard to the provisions of 
        chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title 
        relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, 
        except that no rate of pay fixed under this subsection may 
        exceed the equivalent of that payable to a person occupying a 
        position at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 
        5316 of such title.
            (B) Any Federal Government employee may be detailed to the 
        Commission without reimbursement from the Commission, and such 
        detailee shall retain the rights, status, and privileges of his 
        or her regular employment without interruption.
            (C) All staff of the Commission shall possess a security 
        clearance in accordance with applicable laws and regulations 
        concerning the handling of classified information.
            (2) Consultant services.--(A) The Commission may procure 
        the services of experts and consultants in accordance with 
        section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at rates not 
        to exceed the daily rate paid a person occupying a position at 
        level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of such 
        title.
            (B) All experts and consultants employed by the Commission 
        shall possess a security clearance in accordance with 
        applicable laws and regulations concerning the handling of 
        classified information.
    (i) Compensation and Travel Expenses.--
            (1) Compensation.--(A) Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        each member of the Commission may be compensated at not to 
        exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in 
        effect for a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule 
        under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, for each day 
        during which that member is engaged in the actual performance 
        of the duties of the Commission under this title.
            (B) Members of the Commission who are officers or employees 
        of the United States or Members of Congress shall receive no 
        additional pay by reason of their service on the Commission.
            (2) Travel expenses.--While away from their homes or 
        regular places of business in the performance of services for 
        the Commission, members of the Commission may be allowed travel 
        expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the 
        same manner as persons employed intermittently in the 
        Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of 
        title 5, United States Code.
    (j) Treatment of Information Relating to National Security.--
            (1) In general.--(A) The Director of National Intelligence 
        shall assume responsibility for the handling and disposition of 
        any information related to the national security of the United 
        States that is received, considered, or used by the Commission 
        under this title.
            (B) Any information related to the national security of the 
        United States that is provided to the Commission by a 
        congressional intelligence committees or the congressional 
        armed services committees may not be further provided or 
        released without the approval of the chairman of such 
        committees.
            (2) Access after termination of commission.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, after the 
        termination of the Commission under subsection (k)(2), only the 
        members and designated staff of the congressional intelligence 
        committees, the Director of National Intelligence (and the 
        designees of the Director), and such other officials of the 
        executive branch as the President may designate shall have 
        access to information related to the national security of the 
        United States that is received, considered, or used by the 
        Commission.
    (k) Final Report; Termination.--
            (1) Final report.--Not later than September 1, 2019, the 
        Commission shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees, the congressional intelligence committees, the 
        Director of National Intelligence, and the Secretary of 
        Defense, and the Secretary of Homeland Security a final report 
        on the findings of the Commission.
            (2) Termination.--(A) The Commission, and all the 
        authorities of this section, shall terminate at the end of the 
        120-day period beginning on the date on which the final report 
        under paragraph (1) is submitted to the congressional defense 
        and intelligence committees.
            (B) The Commission may use the 120-day period referred to 
        in paragraph (1) for the purposes of concluding its activities, 
        including providing testimony to Congress concerning the final 
        report referred to in that paragraph and disseminating the 
        report.
    (l) Assessments of Final Report.--Not later than 60 days after 
receipt of the final report under subsection (k)(1), the Director of 
National Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense shall each submit to 
the congressional intelligence committees and the congressional defense 
committees an assessment by the Director or the Secretary, as the case 
may be, of the final report. Each assessment shall include such 
comments on the findings and recommendations contained in the final 
report as the Director or Secretary, as the case may be, considers 
appropriate.
    (m) Inapplicability of Certain Administrative Provisions.--
            (1) Federal advisory committee act.--The provisions of the 
        Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply 
        to the activities of the Commission under this section.
            (2) Freedom of information act.--The provisions of section 
        552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the 
        Freedom of Information Act), shall not apply to the activities, 
        records, and proceedings of the Commission under this section.
    (n) Funding.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated $4,000,000 to carry out this section.
            (2) Availability in general.--Subject to paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary of Defense shall make available to the Commission 
        such amounts as the Commission may require for purposes of the 
        activities of the Commission under this section.
            (3) Duration of availability.--Amounts made available to 
        the Commission under paragraph (2) shall remain available until 
        expended.
    (o) Congressional Intelligence Committees Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``congressional intelligence committees'' means--
            (1) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives.

SEC. 1635. PROGRAM TO ESTABLISH CYBER INSTITUTES AT INSTITUTIONS OF 
              HIGHER LEARNING.

    (a) Program Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a 
program to establish a Cyber Institute at institutions of higher 
learning selected under subsection (b) for purposes of accelerating and 
focusing the development of foundational expertise in critical cyber 
operational skills for future military and civilian leaders of the 
Armed Forces and the Department of Defense, including such leaders of 
the reserve components.
    (b) Selected Institutions of Higher Learning.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall select 
        institutions of higher learning for purposes of the program 
        established under subsection (a) from among institutions of 
        higher learning that have a Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
        program.
            (2) Consideration of senior military colleges.--In 
        selecting institutions of higher learning under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall consider the senior military colleges with 
        Reserve Officers' Training Corps programs.
    (c) Elements.--Each institute established under the program 
authorized by subsection (a) shall include the following:
            (1) Programs to provide future military and civilian 
        leaders of the Armed Forces or the Department of Defense who 
        possess cyber operational expertise from beginning through 
        advanced skill levels. Such programs shall include instruction 
        and practical experiences that lead to recognized 
        certifications and degrees in the cyber field.
            (2) Programs of targeted strategic foreign language 
        proficiency training for such future leaders that--
                    (A) are designed to significantly enhance critical 
                cyber operational capabilities; and
                    (B) are tailored to current and anticipated 
                readiness requirements.
            (3) Programs related to mathematical foundations of 
        cryptography and courses in cryptographic theory and practice 
        designed to complement and reinforce cyber education along with 
        the strategic language programs critical to cyber operations.
            (4) Programs related to data science and courses in data 
        science theory and practice designed to complement and 
        reinforce cyber education along with the strategic language 
        programs critical to cyber operations.
            (5) Programs designed to develop early interest and cyber 
        talent through summer programs, dual enrollment opportunities 
        for cyber, strategic language, data science, and cryptography 
        related courses.
            (6) Training and education programs to expand the pool of 
        qualified cyber instructors necessary to support cyber 
        education in regional school systems.
    (d) Partnerships With Department of Defense and the Armed Forces.--
Any institute established under the program authorized by subsection 
(a) may enter into a partnership with one or more components of the 
Armed Forces, active or reserve, or any agency of the Department of 
Defense to facilitate the development of critical cyber skills for 
students who may pursue a military career.
    (e) Partnerships.--Any institute established under the program 
authorized by subsection (a) may enter into a partnership with one or 
more local educational agencies to facilitate the development of 
critical cyber skills.
    (f) Senior Military Colleges Defined.--The term ``senior military 
colleges'' has the meaning given such term in section 2111a(f) of title 
10, United States Code.

SEC. 1636. ESTABLISHMENT OF CYBERSECURITY FOR DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE 
              MANUFACTURING ACTIVITY.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may, in 
        consultation with the Director of the National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology, establish an activity to assess and 
        strengthen the cybersecurity resiliency of the defense 
        industrial base of the United States.
            (2) Designation.--The activity that may be established 
        under paragraph (1) shall be known as the ``Cybersecurity for 
        Defense Industrial Base Manufacturing Activity''.
    (b) Activities.--If the Secretary of Defense exercises the 
authority under subsection (a), the Secretary shall utilize the 
activity to explore ways to increase the cybersecurity resilience of 
the defense industrial supply chain. Such exploration may include the 
following:
            (1) Developing cybersecurity test capabilities to support 
        identifying and reducing security vulnerabilities (as defined 
        in section 102 of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 
        2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501)) in defense industrial base manufacturing 
        processes.
            (2) Developing in-person and online training to help small 
        defense industrial base manufacturers improve their 
        cybersecurity.
            (3) Ensuring that cybersecurity for defense industrial base 
        manufacturing is included in Department of Defense research and 
        development roadmaps and threat assessments.
            (4) Aggregating, developing, and disseminating capabilities 
        to address cybersecurity threats that can be provided to and 
        adopted by defense industrial base manufacturers of all sizes.

    PART II--MITIGATION OF RISKS POSED BY PROVIDERS OF INFORMATION 
           TECHNOLOGY WITH OBLIGATIONS TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS

SEC. 1637. DEFINITIONS.

    In this part:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Select 
                Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on 
                Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Permanent 
                Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on 
                Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Information technology.--The term ``information 
        technology'' has the meaning given such term in section 11101 
        of title 40, United States Code.
            (3) National security system.--The term ``national security 
        system'' has the meaning given such term in section 3552(b) of 
        title 44, United States Code.

SEC. 1638. IDENTIFICATION OF COUNTRIES OF CONCERN REGARDING 
              CYBERSECURITY.

    (a) Identification of Countries of Concern.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall create a prioritized list of countries of concern 
regarding cybersecurity based on information relating to the following:
            (1) A foreign government's engagement in acts of violence 
        against personnel of the United States or coalition forces.
            (2) A foreign government's willingness and record of 
        providing financing, logistics, training or intelligence to 
        other persons, countries or entities posing a force protection 
        or cybersecurity risk to the personnel, financial systems, 
        critical infrastructure, or information systems of the United 
        States or coalition forces.
            (3) A foreign government's engagement in foreign 
        intelligence activities against the United States.
            (4) A foreign government's direct or indirect participation 
        in transnational organized crime or criminal activity.
            (5) A foreign government's ability and intent to conduct 
        operations to affect the supply chain of the United States 
        Government.
    (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than one year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress the list created pursuant to 
subsection (a) and any accompanying analysis that contributed to the 
creation of the list.

SEC. 1639. MITIGATION OF RISKS TO NATIONAL SECURITY POSED BY PROVIDERS 
              OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WHO HAVE 
              OBLIGATIONS TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS.

    (a) Disclosure Required.--The Department of Defense may not use a 
product, service, or system relating to information or operational 
technology, cybersecurity, an industrial control system, a weapons 
system, or computer antivirus provided by a person unless that person 
discloses to the Secretary of Defense the following:
            (1) Whether the person has allowed a foreign government to 
        review or access the code of a product, system, or service 
        custom-developed for the Department, or is under any obligation 
        to allow a foreign person or government to review or access the 
        code of a product, system, or service custom-developed for the 
        Department as a condition of entering into an agreement for 
        sale or other transaction with a foreign government or with a 
        foreign person on behalf of such a government.
            (2) Whether the person has allowed a foreign government 
        listed in section 1638(a) to review or access the source code 
        of a product, system, or service that the Department is using 
        or intends to use, or is under any obligation to allow a 
        foreign person or government to review or access the source 
        code of a product, system, or service that the Department is 
        using or intends to use as a condition of entering into an 
        agreement for sale or other transaction with a foreign 
        government or with a foreign person on behalf of such a 
        government.
            (3) In a case in which the person is a United States person 
        or an affiliate of a United States person, whether or not the 
        person holds or has sought a license pursuant to the Export 
        Administration Regulations under subchapter C of chapter VII of 
        title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, the International 
        Traffic in Arms Regulations under subchapter M of chapter I of 
        title 22, Code of Federal Regulations, or successor 
        regulations, for information technology products, components, 
        software, or services that contain code custom-developed for 
        the product, system, or service the Department is using or 
        intends to use.
    (b) Post Procurement.--Procurement contracts for covered products 
or systems shall include a clause requiring the information contained 
in subsection (a) be disclosed during the period of the contract if an 
entity becomes aware of information requiring disclosure as per that 
section, including any mitigation measures taken or anticipated.
    (c) Mitigation of Risks.--
            (1) In general.--If, after reviewing a disclosure made by a 
        person under subsection (a), the Secretary determines that the 
        disclosure relating to a product, system, or service entails a 
        risk to the national security infrastructure or data of the 
        United States, or any national security system under the 
        control of the Department, the Secretary shall take such 
        measures as the Secretary considers appropriate to mitigate 
        such risks, including, as the Secretary considers appropriate, 
        by conditioning any agreement for the use, procurement, or 
        acquisition of the product, system, or service on the inclusion 
        of enforceable conditions or requirements that would mitigate 
        such risks.
            (2) Third-party testing standard.--Not later than two years 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act the Secretary shall 
        develop such third-party testing standard as the Secretary 
        considers acceptable for commercial off the shelf (COTS) 
        products, systems, or services to use when dealing with foreign 
        governments.
    (d) Exemption of Disclosures From Freedom of Information Act.--A 
disclosure under subsection (a) shall not be subject to section 552 of 
title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the ``Freedom of 
Information Act''), or any other similar provision of Federal or State 
law requiring the disclosure of information to the public.

SEC. 1640. ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY OF DISCLOSURES.

    (a) Establishment of Registry.--Not later than one year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) establish within the operational capabilities of the 
        Committee for National Security Systems (CNSS) or within such 
        other agency as the Secretary considers appropriate a registry 
        containing the information disclosed under section 1639; and
            (2) upon request, make such information available to any 
        agency conducting a procurement pursuant to the Federal 
        Acquisition Regulations or the Defense Federal Acquisition 
        Regulations.
    (b) Exemption of Registry From Freedom of Information Act.--The 
contents of the registry established under subsection (a)(1) shall not 
be subject to section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly 
referred to as the ``Freedom of Information Act''), or any other 
similar provision of Federal or State law requiring the disclosure of 
information to the public.
    (c) Annual Reports.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once each year 
thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report detailing the number, scope, product 
classifications, and mitigation agreements related to each product, 
system, and service for which a disclosure is made under section 
1639(a).

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

SEC. 1641. OVERSIGHT AND MANAGEMENT OF THE COMMAND, CONTROL, AND 
              COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM FOR THE NATIONAL LEADERSHIP OF THE 
              UNITED STATES.

    (a) Designation of Responsible Individual.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall designate a 
        single individual to be responsible for oversight and strategic 
        portfolio management of the command, control, and 
        communications system for the national leadership of the United 
        States (as defined in section 171a of title 10, United States 
        Code), including--
                    (A) nuclear command, control, and communications;
                    (B) senior leadership communications systems;
                    (C) integrated tactical warning and attack 
                assessment systems, processes, and enablers; and
                    (D) continuity of government functions for which 
                the Department of Defense is responsible.
            (2) Authorities.--Subject to the authority and direction of 
        the Secretary, the individual designated under paragraph (1) 
        shall have the authority to direct the Secretaries of the 
        military departments and officials in the Office of the 
        Secretary of Defense with respect to matters described in 
        paragraph (1), including--
                    (A) playing a significant and directive role in the 
                decision processes for all annual and multi-year 
                planning, programming, budgeting, and execution 
                decisions, including the authority to realign the 
                elements of the budgets and budget requests of the 
                military departments that relate to the matters 
                described in paragraph (1);
                    (B) ensuring that the military departments comply 
                with the standards of the Federal Government and the 
                Department of Defense with respect to matters described 
                in paragraph (1); and
                    (C) any other authorities that the Secretary of 
                Defense considers necessary.
            (3) Chairperson of council on oversight of the national 
        leadership command, control, and communications system.--The 
        individual designated under paragraph (1) shall serve as the 
        Chairperson of the Council on Oversight of the National 
        Leadership Command, Control, and Communications System 
        established under section 171a of title 10, United States Code.
            (4) Staff.--The individual designated under paragraph (1) 
        shall have sufficient dedicated full-time personnel to carry 
        out the responsibilities of that individual under this 
        subsection and as Chairperson of the Council on Oversight of 
        the National Leadership Command, Control, and Communications 
        System.
    (b) Modifications to Council on Oversight of the National 
Leadership Command, Control, and Communications System.--
            (1) Membership.--Subsection (b) of section 171a of title 
        10, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``, Technology, 
                and Logistics'' and inserting ``and Sustainment'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (7) as 
                paragraphs (4) through (8), respectively; and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraph (3):
            ``(3) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering.''.
            (2) Chairperson.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended 
        to read as follows:
    ``(c) Chairperson.--The Chairperson of the Council (in this section 
referred to as the `Chairperson') shall be the individual designated by 
the Secretary of Defense under section 1641(a) of the John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 as responsible 
for oversight and strategic portfolio management of the command, 
control, and communications system for the national leadership of the 
United States.''.
            (3) Responsibilities.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``oversight'' and 
                inserting ``coordination''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by striking ``oversight'' and inserting 
                        ``coordination'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``mitigation'' and inserting ``recommendations 
                        for mitigation actions'';
                            (iii) by striking subparagraphs (C) and (D) 
                        and inserting the following new subparagraph 
                        (C):
                    ``(C) Making recommendations to the Chairperson 
                with respect to resource prioritization.''; and
                            (iv) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as 
                        subparagraph (D).
            (4) Annual reports.--Subsection (e) of such section is 
        amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``the Council shall'' and inserting ``the Chairperson shall''.
            (5) Collection of assessments on certain threats.--
        Subsection (f) of such section is amended by striking ``The 
        Council shall'' and inserting ``The Chairperson shall, in 
        consultation with the Council,''.
            (6) Budget and funding matters.--Subsection (g) of such 
        section is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``the Chairman of the 
                Joint Chiefs of Staff'' and inserting ``the 
                Chairperson'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by striking ``the Chairman of the Joint 
                        Chiefs of Staff'' and inserting ``the 
                        Chairperson''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``the Chairman'' each 
                        place it appears and inserting ``the 
                        Chairperson''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``the Council 
                shall'' and inserting ``the Chairperson shall''.
            (7) Reports on space architecture development.--Subsection 
        (i)(1) of such section is amended by striking ``the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Acquisitions, Technology, and 
        Logistics'' and inserting ``the Chairperson''.
            (8) Notification of reduction of certain warning time.--
        Subsection (j)(2) of such section is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in the first sentence, by striking 
                        ``the Council'' and inserting ``the 
                        Chairperson, in consultation with the 
                        Council,''; and
                            (ii) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``the Council'' and inserting ``the 
                        Chairperson''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``the 
                Council'' and inserting ``the Chairperson''.
            (9) Status of acquisition programs.--Subsection (k) of such 
        section is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``the co-chairs of the 
                Council, acting through the senior steering group of 
                the Council,'' and inserting ``the Chairperson''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``the co-chairs of the 
                Council'' and inserting ``the Chairperson''.

SEC. 1642. MODIFICATION TO REQUIREMENT FOR CONVENTIONAL LONG-RANGE 
              STANDOFF WEAPON.

    (a) In General.--Section 217(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
706) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking subparagraph (A); and
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``the Secretary may'' and inserting 
                the following: ``the Secretary--
                    ``(A) may'';
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) shall begin procurement and fielding of a 
                follow-on air-launched cruise missile to the AGM-86 for 
                conventional missions not more than five years after 
                the successful completion of initial operational test 
                and evaluation for such a missile for nuclear 
                missions.''.
    (b) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to 
design and procure the long-range standoff weapon to provide a nuclear 
cruise missile capability to replace the AGM-86 as part of the 
modernization of the nuclear triad.

SEC. 1643. EXCHANGE PROGRAM FOR NUCLEAR WEAPONS PROGRAM EMPLOYEES.

    (a) Program Authorized.--The Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons 
Council established under section 179 of title 10, United States Code, 
and the Administrator for Nuclear Security, shall jointly establish an 
exchange program under which--
            (1) the Chairman shall arrange for the temporary assignment 
        of civilian and military personnel working on nuclear weapons 
        policy, production, and force structure issues in the Office of 
        the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Staff, the Navy, or the Air 
        Force to the Office of the Deputy Administrator for Defense 
        Programs in the National Nuclear Security Administration; and
            (2) the Administrator shall arrange for the temporary 
        assignment of civilian personnel working on programs related to 
        nuclear weapons in the Office of the Deputy Administrator for 
        Defense Programs to the elements of the Department of Defense 
        specified in paragraph (1).
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the exchange program established 
under subsection (a) are--
            (1) to familiarize personnel from the Department of Defense 
        and the National Nuclear Security Administration with the 
        equities, priorities, processes, culture, and employees of the 
        other agency;
            (2) for participants in the exchange program to return the 
        expertise gained through their exchanges to their original 
        agencies at the conclusion of their exchanges; and
            (3) to improve communication between and integration of the 
        agencies that support the formation and oversight of nuclear 
        weapons policy through lasting relationships across the chain 
        of command.
    (c) Participants.--
            (1) Number of participants.--The Chairman and the 
        Administrator shall each select not fewer than 5 and not more 
        than 10 participants per year for participation in the exchange 
        program established under subsection (a). The Chairman and the 
        Administrator may determine how many participants to select 
        under this paragraph without regard to the number of 
        participants selected from the other agency.
            (2) Criteria for selection.--
                    (A) In general.--The Chairman and the Administrator 
                shall select participants for the exchange program 
                established under subsection (a) from among mid-career 
                employees and based on--
                            (i) the qualifications and desire to 
                        participate in the program of the employee; and
                            (ii) the technical needs and capacities of 
                        the Department of Defense and the National 
                        Nuclear Security Administration, as applicable.
                    (B) Department of defense.--In selecting 
                participants from the Department of Defense for the 
                exchange program established under subsection (a), the 
                Chairman shall ensure that there is a mix of military 
                personnel and civilian employees of the Department.
    (d) Terms.--Exchanges pursuant to the exchange program established 
under subsection (a) shall be for terms of one to two years, as 
determined and negotiated by the Chairman and the Administrator. Such 
terms may begin and end on a rolling basis.
    (e) Guidance and Implementation.--
            (1) Guidance.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Chairman and the Administrator shall 
        jointly develop and submit to the congressional defense 
        committees interim guidance on the form and contours of the 
        exchange program established under subsection (a).
            (2) Implementation.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Chairman and the 
        Administrator shall implement the guidance developed under 
        paragraph (1).

SEC. 1644. PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PARTS OF INTERCONTINENTAL 
              BALLISTIC MISSILE FUZES.

    (a) Availability of Funds.--Notwithstanding section 1502(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, of the amount authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2019 by section 101 and available for 
Missile Procurement, Air Force, as specified in the funding table in 
division D, $9,841,000 shall be available for the procurement of 
covered parts pursuant to contracts entered into under section 1645(a) 
of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 
3651).
    (b) Covered Parts Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
parts'' means commercially available off-the-shelf items as defined in 
section 104 of title 41, United States Code.

SEC. 1645. PLAN TO TRAIN OFFICERS IN NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, AND 
              COMMUNICATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of the Navy, and the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, develop a plan to train, 
educate, manage, and track officers of the Armed Forces in nuclear 
command, control, and communications.
    (b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall address--
            (1) manpower requirements at various grades;
            (2) desired career paths and promotion timing; and
            (3) any other matters the Secretary of Defense considers 
        relevant to develop a mature cadre of officers with nuclear 
        command, control, and communications expertise.
    (c) Submission of Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit the 
plan required by subsection (a) to the Committee on Armed Services of 
the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives.
    (d) Implementation.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall be 
implemented not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 1646. PLAN FOR ALIGNMENT OF ACQUISITION OF WARHEAD LIFE EXTENSION 
              PROGRAMS AND DELIVERY VEHICLES FOR SUCH WARHEADS.

    Not later than February 15, 2019, the Chairman of the Nuclear 
Weapons Council established under section 179 of title 10, United 
States Code, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
plan containing a proposal for better aligning the acquisition of 
warhead life extension programs by the National Nuclear Security 
Administration with the acquisition of the planned delivery vehicles 
for such warheads by the Department of Defense.

SEC. 1647. EXTENSION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON PLAN FOR THE NUCLEAR WEAPONS 
              STOCKPILE, NUCLEAR WEAPONS COMPLEX, NUCLEAR WEAPONS 
              DELIVERY SYSTEMS, AND NUCLEAR WEAPONS COMMAND AND CONTROL 
              SYSTEM.

    Section 1043 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1576), as most recently amended 
by section 1665 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91), is further amended in subsection (a)(1) 
by striking ``2019'' and inserting ``2024''.

SEC. 1648. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR ACTIVITIES TO MODIFY UNITED 
              STATES AIRCRAFT TO IMPLEMENT OPEN SKIES TREATY.

    (a) In General.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2019 for research, 
development, test, and engineering or aircraft procurement, Air Force, 
for the digital visual imaging system may be obligated or expended to 
carry out any activities to modify any United States aircraft for 
purposes of implementing the Open Skies Treaty until--
            (1) the Secretary of Defense submits to the appropriate 
        congressional committees the certification described in 
        paragraph (2) of section 1235(b) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91); and
            (2) the President submits to the appropriate congressional 
        committees the certification described in paragraph (3) of such 
        section.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the congressional defense committees; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives.
            (2) Open skies treaty.--The term ``Open Skies Treaty'' 
        means the Treaty on Open Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 
        1992, and entered into force January 1, 2002.

SEC. 1649. SENSE OF SENATE ON NUCLEAR POSTURE REVIEW.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Secretary of Defense James Mattis said in his opening 
        statement before the Committee on Armed Services of the House 
        of Representatives on February 6, 2018, ``Maintaining an 
        effective nuclear deterrent is much less expensive than 
        fighting a war that we were unable to deter.''.
            (2) In the same statement, Secretary Mattis said, 
        ``Recapitalizing the nuclear weapons complex of laboratories 
        and plants is also long past due . . . Due to consistent 
        underfunding, significant and sustained investments will be 
        required over the coming decade to ensure that the National 
        Nuclear Security Administration will be able to deliver at the 
        rate needed to support nuclear deterrence into the 2030s and 
        beyond.''.
            (3) Former Secretary of Defense Ash Carter recently wrote 
        that ``it is essential to recapitalize the nuclear Triad, 
        because it is the bedrock of deterrence. During the past 25 
        years, the United States has made no major new investments in 
        its nuclear forces, yet other countries have conducted vigorous 
        buildups. This history does not support the contention that 
        U.S. investments fuel the nuclear programs of others. My views 
        are reflected in the latest Nuclear Posture Review.''.
            (4) Former Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Jim Miller 
        recently wrote, ``Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis's 2018 
        Nuclear Posture Review offers continuity with past U.S. policy 
        and plans, including those in the 2010 NPR. It deserves broad 
        bipartisan support.''.
            (5) The Foreign Minister of Japan, Taro Kono, said in a 
        statement on February 3, 2018, ``Japan highly appreciates the 
        latest NPR which clearly articulates the U.S. resolve to ensure 
        the effectiveness of its deterrence and its commitment to 
        providing extended deterrence to its allies including Japan, in 
        light of the international security environment which has been 
        rapidly worsened since the release of the previous 2010 NPR, in 
        particular, by continued development of North Korea's nuclear 
        and missile programs.''.
            (6) In testimony before the Committee on Armed Services of 
        the Senate on April 30, 2018, Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis 
        said, ``Modernizing the nation's nuclear deterrent delivery 
        systems and our nuclear command and control is the [Department 
        of Defense's] top priority.''.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the 2018 Nuclear Posture Review is a measured and 
        appropriate response to the current security environment, 
        taking into account the developments in other nuclear weapons 
        states such as the People's Republic of China and the Russian 
        Federation and the return to great power competition as 
        identified by two successive Secretaries of Defense and 
        outlined in the 2018 National Defense Strategy;
            (2) Congress should fully fund the complete nuclear 
        modernization program of the Department of Defense, including 
        the Columbia-class submarine, the Ground-Based Strategic 
        Deterrent, the B-21 long-range bomber, the Long-Range Stand-Off 
        weapon, the re-engining of the B-52H bomber, and dual-capable 
        aircraft;
            (3) the Department of Defense should organize itself 
        appropriately to engineer, acquire, and operate nuclear 
        command, control, and communications systems that are secure, 
        reliable, and modernized;
            (4) Congress should fully fund the National Nuclear 
        Security Administration component of the nuclear modernization 
        program, including--
                    (A) the existing warhead life extension programs 
                and major alterations, including the W76-2 warhead 
                modification program and the W80-4 life extension 
                program; and
                    (B) the recapitalization of infrastructure for 
                production and processing of plutonium pits, uranium, 
                tritium, lithium, and trusted strategic radiation-
                hardened microelectronics;
            (5) in order to execute the programs described in this 
        subsection in the timely fashion required by the Nuclear 
        Posture Review, the National Nuclear Security Administration 
        must balance workload, improve management of large programs, 
        and better integrate its acquisition programs with those of the 
        Department of Defense;
            (6) the United States maintains a steadfast commitment to 
        the policy of extended deterrence in Europe and East Asia, and 
        the nuclear modernization program will ensure that commitment 
        remains credible;
            (7) the United States should continue to honor long-held 
        arms control, nonproliferation, and nuclear security 
        commitments, and should seek to increase transparency and 
        predictability through strategic dialogue, risk-reduction 
        communication channels, and the sharing of best practices;
            (8) when complied with by all parties, effective nuclear 
        nonproliferation and arms control measures and agreements can 
        support the security of the United States and countries that 
        are allies or partners of the United States by--
                    (A) controlling the spread of nuclear materials, 
                technology, and expertise;
                    (B) decreasing the risk of misperception and 
                miscalculation; and
                    (C) avoiding destabilizing nuclear arms 
                competition; and
            (9) the United States should continue to affirm its 
        commitments to arms control efforts that advance the security 
        of the United States and countries that are allies or partners 
        of the United States, and are verifiable and enforceable, 
        including the Treaty between the United States of America and 
        the Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction 
        and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on April 8, 
        2010, and entered into force on February 5, 2011 (commonly 
        known as the ``New START Treaty''), which is in effect through 
        February 2021, and with mutual agreement may be extended for up 
        to five years.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

SEC. 1651. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION RELATING TO MISSILE DEFENSE 
              INFORMATION AND SYSTEMS.

    Section 130h(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``January 1, 2019'' and inserting ``January 1, 2021''.

SEC. 1652. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR STANDARD MISSILE-3 IB 
              GUIDED MISSILES.

    (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to section 2306b 
of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may enter 
into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 
2019 program year, for the procurement of Standard Missile-3 Block IB 
guided missiles.
    (b) Authority for Advance Procurement.--The Secretary may enter 
into one or more contracts for advance procurement associated with the 
missiles for which authorization to enter into a multiyear procurement 
contract is provided under subsection (a).
    (c) Cost Analysis Requirement.--The Secretary may not exercise the 
authority provided under subsection (a) or (b) until the Secretary 
submits to the congressional defense committees the report and 
confirmation required under subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, of 
section 2306b(i)(2) of title 10, United States Code.
    (d) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2019 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for such later fiscal year.

SEC. 1653. EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENT FOR REPORTS ON UNFUNDED PRIORITIES 
              OF MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY.

    Section 1696 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017 (130 Stat. 2638; Public Law 114-328) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Not later than'' and inserting 
                ``Each year, not later than''
                    (B) by striking ``for each of fiscal years 2018 and 
                2019''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``the budget if'' and 
        all that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
        ``the budget if additional resources had been available for the 
        budget to fund the program, activity, or mission 
        requirement.''.

SEC. 1654. IRON DOME SHORT-RANGE ROCKET DEFENSE SYSTEM AND ISRAELI 
              COOPERATIVE MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAM CO-DEVELOPMENT AND 
              CO-PRODUCTION.

    (a) Iron Dome Short-range Rocket Defense System.--
            (1) Availability of funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
        appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal 
        year 2019 for procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the 
        Missile Defense Agency, not more than $70,000,000 may be 
        provided to the Government of Israel to procure components for 
        the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system through co-
        production of such components in the United States by industry 
        of the United States.
            (2) Conditions.--
                    (A) Agreement.--Funds described in paragraph (1) 
                for the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense program 
                shall be available subject to the terms and conditions 
                in the Agreement Between the Department of Defense of 
                the United States of America and the Ministry of 
                Defense of the State of Israel Concerning Iron Dome 
                Defense System Procurement, signed on March 5, 2014, as 
                amended to include co-production for Tamir 
                interceptors.
                    (B) Certification.--Not later than 30 days prior to 
                the initial obligation of funds described in paragraph 
                (1), the Director of the Missile Defense Agency and the 
                Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
                congressional committees--
                            (i) a certification that the amended 
                        bilateral international agreement specified in 
                        subparagraph (A) is being implemented as 
                        provided in such agreement; and
                            (ii) an assessment detailing any risks 
                        relating to the implementation of such 
                        agreement.
    (b) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, David's Sling 
Weapon System Co-production.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), of the funds 
        authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 for 
        procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile 
        Defense Agency not more than $50,000,000 may be provided to the 
        Government of Israel to procure the David's Sling Weapon 
        System, including for co-production of parts and components in 
        the United States by United States industry.
            (2) Certification.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a certification that--
                    (A) the Government of Israel has demonstrated the 
                successful completion of the knowledge points, 
                technical milestones, and production readiness reviews 
                required by the research, development, and technology 
                agreement and the bilateral co-production agreement for 
                the David's Sling Weapon System;
                    (B) funds specified in paragraph (1) will be 
                provided on the basis of a one-for-one cash match made 
                by Israel or in another matching amount that otherwise 
                meets best efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United 
                States and Israel); and
                    (C) the level of co-production of parts, 
                components, and all-up rounds (if appropriate) in the 
                United States by United States industry for the David's 
                Sling Weapon System is not less than 50 percent.
    (c) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
Interceptor Program Co-production.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), of the funds 
        authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019 for 
        procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile 
        Defense Agency not more than $80,000,000 may be provided to the 
        Government of Israel for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
        Program, including for co-production of parts and components in 
        the United States by United States industry.
            (2) Certification.--Except as provided by paragraph (3), 
        the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
        shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        certification that--
                    (A) the Government of Israel has demonstrated the 
                successful completion of the knowledge points, 
                technical milestones, and production readiness reviews 
                required by the research, development, and technology 
                agreements for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
                Program;
                    (B) funds specified in paragraph (1) will be 
                provided on the basis of a one-for-one cash match made 
                by Israel or in another matching amount that otherwise 
                meets best efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United 
                States and Israel);
                    (C) the United States has entered into a bilateral 
                international agreement with Israel that establishes, 
                with respect to the use of such funds--
                            (i) in accordance with subparagraph (D), 
                        the terms of co-production of parts and 
                        components on the basis of the greatest 
                        practicable co-production of parts, components, 
                        and all-up rounds (if appropriate) by United 
                        States industry and minimizes nonrecurring 
                        engineering and facilitization expenses to the 
                        costs needed for co-production;
                            (ii) complete transparency on the 
                        requirement of Israel for the number of 
                        interceptors and batteries that will be 
                        procured, including with respect to the 
                        procurement plans, acquisition strategy, and 
                        funding profiles of Israel;
                            (iii) technical milestones for co-
                        production of parts and components and 
                        procurement;
                            (iv) a joint affordability working group to 
                        consider cost reduction initiatives; and
                            (v) joint approval processes for third-
                        party sales; and
                    (D) the level of co-production described in 
                subparagraph (C)(i) for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
                Interceptor Program is not less than 50 percent.
            (3) Waiver.--The Under Secretary may waive the 
        certification required by paragraph (2) if the Under Secretary 
        certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the 
        Under Secretary has received sufficient data from the 
        Government of Israel to demonstrate--
                    (A) the funds specified in paragraph (1) are 
                provided to Israel solely for funding the procurement 
                of long-lead components and critical hardware in 
                accordance with a production plan, including a funding 
                profile detailing Israeli contributions for production, 
                including long-lead production, of the Arrow 3 Upper 
                Tier Interceptor Program;
                    (B) such long-lead components have successfully 
                completed knowledge points, technical milestones, and 
                production readiness reviews; and
                    (C) the long-lead procurement will be conducted in 
                a manner that maximizes co-production in the United 
                States without incurring nonrecurring engineering 
                activity or cost other than such activity or cost 
                required for suppliers of the United States to start or 
                restart production in the United States.
    (d) Number.--In carrying out paragraph (2) of subsection (b) and 
paragraph (2) of subsection (c), the Under Secretary may submit--
            (1) one certification covering both the David's Sling 
        Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program; 
        or
            (2) separate certifications for each respective system.
    (e) Timing.--The Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees the certifications under paragraph (2) of subsection 
(b) and paragraph (2) of subsection (c) by not later than 60 days 
before the funds specified in paragraph (1) of subsections (b) and (c) 
for the respective system covered by the certification are provided to 
the Government of Israel.
    (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
            (1) The congressional defense committees.
            (2) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 1655. METRICS FOR EVALUATING EFFECTIVENESS OF INTEGRATED BALLISTIC 
              MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM AGAINST OPERATIONALLY REALISTIC 
              BALLISTIC MISSILE ATTACKS.

    (a) Development of Metrics Required.--The Director of the Missile 
Defense Agency shall, in coordination with the Director of Operational 
Test and Evaluation, the Director of the Ballistic Missile Defense 
System Operational Test Agency, the Commander of the Joint Forces 
Combatant Command-Integrated Missile Defense, the service acquisition 
executives (as defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code), 
and the commanders of the combatant commands, develop operationally 
relevant metrics for evaluating the effectiveness of the integrated 
Ballistic Missile Defense System (BMDS) and its components and elements 
against operationally realistic ballistic missile attacks into areas 
defended by United States combatant commands.
    (b) Incorporation of Metrics Into Annual Reports.--Beginning in 
February 2019, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall 
incorporate the metrics developed under subsection (a) into the annual 
reports of the Director to the congressional defense committees, 
including an assessment of progress against such metrics on the 
acquisition baseline of the Missile Defense Agency.
    (c) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2019 by this Act and available for the Command and Control, 
Battle Management and Communications (C2BMC) program, not more than 50 
percent may be obligated or expended until the Director develops the 
metrics required by subsection (a).

SEC. 1656. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT RELATING TO TRANSITION OF 
              BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAMS TO MILITARY 
              DEPARTMENTS.

    Section 1676(b)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended by inserting ``or 
equivalent approval'' before the period at the end.

SEC. 1657. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON ACCELERATION OF MISSILE DEFENSE 
              CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
Missile Defense Agency should--
            (1) accelerate the fielding, if technically feasible, of 
        the planned additional 20 ground-based interceptors with 
        Redesigned Kill Vehicles (RKV) at Missile Field 4 at Fort 
        Greely, Alaska, and to mate the Redesigned Kill Vehicles with 
        the newest booster technology;
            (2) weigh the rapid growth in missile and nuclear threats 
        against the cost and risk of accelerating the Redesigned Kill 
        Vehicle and the Multi-Object Kill Vehicle development and 
        deployment;
            (3) ensure, prior to its operational deployment, that the 
        Redesigned Kill Vehicle has demonstrated the ability to 
        accomplish its intended mission through a successful, 
        operationally realistic flight test;
            (4) rapidly develop and deploy a persistent, space-based 
        sensor architecture to ensure our missile defenses are more 
        effective against ballistic missile threats and more responsive 
        to new and emergent threats from hypersonic and cruise 
        missiles;
            (5) pursue innovative concepts for existing technologies, 
        such as a missile defense role for the F-35 aircraft; and
            (6) invest in advanced technologies, such as boost-phase 
        warning, tracking, and intercept.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense 
        Agency shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
        report on ways the Missile Defense Agency can accelerate the 
        construction of Missile Field 4 at Fort Greely, Alaska, as well 
        as the deployment of 20 ground-based interceptors with 
        Redesigned Kill Vehicles (RKV) at such missile field, by at 
        least one year.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A threat-based description of the benefits and 
                risks of accelerating the construction and deployment 
                referred to in paragraph (1).
                    (B) A description of the technical and acquisition 
                risks and potential effects on the reliability of the 
                Redesigned Kill Vehicle if deployment is accelerated as 
                described in paragraph (1).
                    (C) A description of the cost implications of 
                accelerating the construction and deployment referred 
                to in paragraph (1).
                    (D) A description of the effect such acceleration 
                would have on the Redesigned Kill Vehicle flight test 
                schedule and the overall Integrated Master Test Plan.
                    (E) A description of the effect that the 
                acceleration described in paragraph (1) would have on 
                re-tipping currently deployed exoatmospheric kill 
                vehicles with the Redesigned Kill Vehicle.
                    (F) A description of how such acceleration would 
                align with the deployment of the long range 
                discrimination radar and the homeland defense radar-
                Hawaii.
                    (G) A cost-benefit analysis and a feasibility 
                assessment for construction of a fifth missile field at 
                Fort Greely, Alaska.
            (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 1658. INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE FOR EVOLVING THEATER 
              MISSILE THREATS.

    (a) Sense of the Senate.--It is the Sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the United States should utilize regional missile 
        defense assets to counter and deter against cruise, short-to-
        medium-range ballistic, and hypersonic missile threats;
            (2) the United States should continue to rapidly work 
        toward the interoperability of all United States missile 
        defense systems for a more effective layered defense; and
            (3) the United States Army should increase its attention, 
        focus, and resources developing an integrated air-and-missile 
        defense architecture to protect both land and air forces from 
        cruise, short-to-medium-range ballistic, and hypersonic missile 
        threats.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, if consistent with the direction or 
        recommendations of the Missile Defense Review that commenced in 
        2017, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the Department's 
        plan for the creation of a fully interoperable and integrated 
        air and missile defense architecture.
            (2) Elements.--Elements of the report required by paragraph 
        (1) are as follows:
                    (A) An intelligence assessment of cruise, short-to-
                medium-range ballistic, and hypersonic missile threats 
                to the United States and its deployed forces.
                    (B) An examination of current United States 
                capabilities to defeat the threats included in the 
                report required by subparagraph (A) and an analysis of 
                the existing capability and resource gaps.
                    (C) An analysis of the level of integration and 
                interoperability of United States missile defense 
                systems and the future requirements needed to become 
                fully integrated and interoperable to defeat the 
                threats included in the report required by subparagraph 
                (A).
                    (D) A description of the current state of 
                survivability of United States missile defense systems 
                against the full spectrum of air and missile threats 
                from near-peer threats and any planned efforts to 
                increase survivability.
            (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 1659. ACCELERATION OF HYPERSONIC MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAM.

    (a) Acceleration of Program.--The Director of the Missile Defense 
Agency shall accelerate the hypersonic missile defense program of the 
Missile Defense Agency.
    (b) Deployment.--The Director shall deploy such program in 
conjunction with a persistent space-based missile defense sensor 
program.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on how hypersonic 
        missile defense can be accelerated to meet emerging hypersonic 
        threats.
            (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) An estimate of the cost of such acceleration.
                    (B) The technical requirements and acquisition plan 
                needed for the Director to develop and deploy a 
                hypersonic missile defense program.
                    (C) A testing campaign plan that accelerates the 
                delivery of hypersonic defense systems to the 
                warfighter.
            (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 1660. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON ALLIED PARTNERSHIPS FOR MISSILE 
              DEFENSE.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the United States should seek additional opportunities, 
        at the tactical, operational, and strategic levels, to provide 
        missile defense capabilities, doctrine, interoperability, and 
        planning to allies and trusted partners of the United States;
            (2) an expedited foreign military sales arrangement would 
        be beneficial in delivering such missile defenses to allies and 
        trusted partners; and
            (3) it is important to continue to work with allies and 
        trusted partners, such as Israel, to learn from their 
        experience deploying successful missile defense technologies.

SEC. 1660A. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON RESULTS OF TESTS CARRIED OUT BY 
              MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) tests carried out by the Missile Defense Agency, which 
        do not achieve an intercept or the main objective, should not 
        be considered failures;
            (2) the Missile Defense Agency--in an effort to deliver 
        capabilities at the speed of relevance--should recognize the 
        learning value of individual advancements made by all test 
        events, rather than viewing any total outcome as an indication 
        of the reliability of entire missile defense systems;
            (3) the Missile Defense Agency should, as part of its test 
        program, continue to build an independently accredited modeling 
        and simulation element to better inform missile defense 
        performance assessments and test criteria; and
            (4) the Missile Defense Agency should continue to pursue an 
        increasingly rigorous testing regime, in coordination with the 
        Office of the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation, to 
        more rapidly deliver capabilities to the warfighter as the 
        threat evolves.

SEC. 1660B. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON DISCRIMINATION FOR MISSILE DEFENSE.

    (a) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that 
prioritizing discrimination capabilities to improve missile defense 
effectiveness against current and future threats is critically 
important.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense 
        Agency shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
        report on the following:
                    (A) Needed discrimination improvements within the 
                missile defense architecture.
                    (B) The Missile Defense Agency's plan to rapidly 
                field advanced discrimination capabilities.
                    (C) An analysis of efforts to address 
                discrimination challenges against emerging adversary 
                threats, including hypersonic and cruise missiles.
            (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 1660C. DEVELOPMENT AND DEPLOYMENT OF PERSISTENT SPACE-BASED SENSOR 
              ARCHITECTURE.

    (a) Dissociation With Ballistic Missile Defense Review.--Subsection 
(a) of section 1683 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended by striking ``If 
consistent'' and all that follows through ``develop'' and inserting 
``Not later than December 31, 2018, the Director of the Missile Defense 
Agency shall, in coordination with the Secretary of the Air Force and 
the Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, commence 
developing''.
    (b) Deployment Deadline.--Such subsection is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``(a) In General.--'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) Development and Deployment.--
            ``(1) Development.--''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Deployment.--The Director of the Missile Defense 
        Agency shall ensure that the sensor architecture developed 
        under paragraph (1) is deployed on or before December 31, 
        2022.''.
    (c) Compatibility With Efforts of Defense Advanced Research 
Projects Agency.--Such section is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsection 
        (f) and (g), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Compatibility With Efforts of Defense Advanced Research 
Projects Agency.--The Director shall ensure that the sensor 
architecture developed under subsection (a) is compatible with efforts 
of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency relating to space-
based sensors for missile defense.''.
    (d) Report on Progress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
        the congressional defense committees a report on the progress 
        of all efforts being made by the Missile Defense Agency, the 
        Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, and the Air Force 
        relating to space-based sensing and tracking capabilities for 
        missile defense and how each of such organizations will work 
        together to avoid duplication of efforts.
            (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 1660D. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT TO DEVELOP A SPACE-BASED 
              BALLISTIC MISSILE INTERCEPT LAYER.

    (a) Dissociation With Ballistic Missile Defense Review.--Subsection 
(a) of section 1688 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended, in the matter before 
paragraph (1), by striking ``If consistent'' and all that follows 
through ``the Director'' and inserting ``The Director''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended, in the matter before paragraph (1), by striking ``If the 
Director carries out subsection (a), not later'' and inserting ``Not 
later''.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 1661. ASSESSMENT OF ELECTRONIC WARFARE CAPABILITIES OF RUSSIA AND 
              CHINA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees and the 
congressional intelligence committees (as defined in section 3 of the 
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)) country-wide 
assessments of the electronic warfare capabilities of the Russian 
Federation and the People's Republic of China.
    (b) Contents.--The assessments submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include, for the countries concerned, the following:
            (1) The electronic warfare doctrine.
            (2) The order of battle on land, sea, air, space, and 
        cyberspace.
            (3) The current status of expected direction of technology 
        and research over the next 10 years.

SEC. 1662. BUDGET EXHIBIT ON SUPPORT PROVIDED TO ENTITIES OUTSIDE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall 
include in the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in 
support of the Department of Defense budget for each fiscal year (as 
submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code) a single budget exhibit containing 
relevant details pertaining to support provided by the Department of 
Defense to the Executive Office of the President related to senior 
leader communications and continuity of government programs.
    (b) Inclusions.--The budget exhibit required by subsection (a) 
shall include--
            (1) support provided by the White House Military Office, 
        the White House Communications Agency, special mission area 
        activities of the Defense Information Systems Agency, and other 
        relevant programs; and
            (2) specific appropriation and line numbers where 
        appropriate.
    (c) Form.--The budget exhibit required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 1663. DEVELOPMENT OF ELECTROMAGNETIC BATTLE MANAGEMENT CAPABILITY 
              FOR JOINT ELECTROMAGNETIC OPERATIONS.

    (a) Designation of Executive Agent.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Electronic Warfare Executive 
Committee shall designate a military service with the responsibility 
for acting as executive agent for the development of an Electromagnetic 
Battle Management capability for joint electromagnetic operations.
    (b) Certification Requirement.--Along with the budget for each 
fiscal year submitted by the President pursuant to section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall include a 
certification from the Electronic Warfare Executive Committee whether 
sufficient funds have been budgeted for the development of an 
Electromagnetic Battle Management capability for joint electromagnetic 
operations.

    TITLE XVII--COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES

SEC. 1701. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Foreign Investment Risk Review 
Modernization Act of 2018''.

SEC. 1702. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    (a) In General.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) foreign investment provides substantial economic 
        benefits to the United States, including the promotion of 
        economic growth, productivity, competitiveness, and job 
        creation, and the majority of foreign investment transactions 
        pose little or no risk to the national security of the United 
        States, especially when those investments are truly passive in 
        nature;
            (2) maintaining the commitment of the United States to open 
        and fair investment policy also encourages other countries to 
        reciprocate and helps open new foreign markets for United 
        States businesses and their products;
            (3) it should continue to be the policy of the United 
        States to enthusiastically welcome and support foreign 
        investment, consistent with the protection of national 
        security;
            (4) at the same time, the national security landscape has 
        shifted in recent years, and so has the nature of the 
        investments that pose the greatest potential risk to national 
        security, which warrants a modernization of the processes and 
        authorities of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the 
        United States and of the United States export control system;
            (5) the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United 
        States plays a critical role in protecting the national 
        security of the United States, and, therefore, it is essential 
        that the member agencies of the Committee are adequately 
        resourced and able to hire appropriately qualified individuals 
        in a timely manner, and that those individuals' security 
        clearances are processed as a high priority;
            (6) the President should conduct a more robust 
        international outreach effort to urge and help allies and 
        partners of the United States to establish processes that 
        parallel the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United 
        States to screen foreign investments for national security 
        risks and to facilitate coordination;
            (7) the President should lead a collaborative effort with 
        allies and partners of the United States to strengthen the 
        multilateral export control regime to more effectively address 
        the unprecedented industrial policies of certain countries of 
        special concern, including aggressive efforts to acquire United 
        States technology, and the blending of civil and military 
        programs;
            (8) any penalties imposed by the United States Government 
        with respect to an individual or entity pursuant to a 
        determination that the individual or entity has violated 
        sanctions imposed by the United States or the export control 
        laws of the United States should not be reversed for reasons 
        unrelated to the national security of the United States; and
            (9) the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United 
        States should continue to review transactions for the purpose 
        of protecting national security and should not consider issues 
        of national interest absent a national security nexus.
    (b) Sense of Congress on Consideration of Covered Transactions.--It 
is the sense of Congress that, when considering national security 
risks, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States may 
consider--
            (1) whether a transaction involves a country of special 
        concern that has a demonstrated or declared strategic goal of 
        acquiring a type of critical technology or critical 
        infrastructure that would affect United States technological 
        and industrial leadership in areas related to national 
        security;
            (2) the potential national security-related effects of the 
        cumulative market share of or a pattern of recent transactions 
        in any one type of infrastructure, energy asset, critical 
        material, or critical technology by foreign persons;
            (3) whether any foreign person that would acquire an 
        interest in a United States business or its assets as a result 
        of a transaction has a history of complying with United States 
        laws and regulations;
            (4) the extent to which a transaction is likely to expose, 
        either directly or indirectly, personally identifiable 
        information, genetic information, or other sensitive data of 
        United States citizens to access by a foreign government or 
        foreign person that may exploit that information in a manner 
        that threatens national security; and
            (5) whether a transaction is likely to have the effect of 
        exacerbating or creating new cybersecurity vulnerabilities in 
        the United States or is likely to result in a foreign 
        government gaining a significant new capability to engage in 
        malicious cyber-enabled activities against the United States, 
        including such activities designed to affect the outcome of any 
        election for Federal office.

SEC. 1703. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 721(a) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
4565(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Access.--The term `access' means the ability and 
        opportunity to obtain information, subject to regulations 
        prescribed by the Committee.
            ``(2) Committee; chairperson.--The terms `Committee' and 
        `chairperson' mean the Committee on Foreign Investment in the 
        United States and the chairperson thereof, respectively.
            ``(3) Control.--The term `control' means the power to 
        determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting an 
        entity, subject to regulations prescribed by the Committee.
            ``(4) Country of special concern.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `country of special 
                concern' means a country that poses a significant 
                threat to the national security interests of the United 
                States.
                    ``(B) Rule of construction.--This paragraph shall 
                not be construed to require the Committee to maintain a 
                list of countries of special concern.
            ``(5) Covered transaction.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as otherwise provided, 
                the term `covered transaction' means--
                            ``(i) any transaction described in 
                        subparagraph (B)(i); and
                            ``(ii) any transaction described in clauses 
                        (ii) through (v) of subparagraph (B) that is 
                        proposed, pending, or completed on or after the 
                        effective date specified in section 
                        1732(b)(1)(A) of the Foreign Investment Risk 
                        Review Modernization Act of 2018.
                    ``(B) Transactions described.--A transaction 
                described in this subparagraph is any of the following:
                            ``(i) Any merger, acquisition, or takeover 
                        that is proposed or pending after August 23, 
                        1988, by or with any foreign person that could 
                        result in foreign control of any United States 
                        business.
                            ``(ii) Subject to subparagraph (C), the 
                        purchase or lease by a foreign person of, or a 
                        concession offered to a foreign person with 
                        respect to, private or public real estate 
                        that--
                                    ``(I) is located in the United 
                                States;
                                    ``(II)(aa) is, is located at, or 
                                will function as part of, a land, air, 
                                or maritime port; or
                                    ``(bb)(AA) is in close proximity to 
                                a United States military installation 
                                or another facility or property of the 
                                United States Government that is 
                                sensitive for reasons relating to 
                                national security;
                                    ``(BB) could reasonably provide the 
                                foreign person the ability to collect 
                                information on activities being 
                                conducted at such an installation, 
                                facility, or property; or
                                    ``(CC) could otherwise expose 
                                national security activities at such an 
                                installation, facility, or property to 
                                the risk of foreign surveillance; and
                                    ``(III) meets such other criteria 
                                as the Committee prescribes by 
                                regulation, as long as such criteria do 
                                not expand the categories of real 
                                estate to which this clause applies 
                                beyond the categories described in 
                                subclause (II).
                            ``(iii) Any other investment (other than a 
                        passive investment) by a foreign person in any 
                        United States critical technology company or 
                        United States critical infrastructure company 
                        that is unaffiliated with the foreign person, 
                        subject to regulations prescribed under 
                        subparagraph (C).
                            ``(iv) Any change in the rights that a 
                        foreign person has with respect to a United 
                        States business in which the foreign person has 
                        an investment, if that change could result in--
                                    ``(I) foreign control of the United 
                                States business; or
                                    ``(II) an investment described in 
                                clause (iii).
                            ``(v) Any other transaction, transfer, 
                        agreement, or arrangement the structure of 
                        which is designed or intended to evade or 
                        circumvent the application of this section, 
                        subject to regulations prescribed by the 
                        Committee.
                    ``(C) Further definition through regulations.--
                            ``(i) Exception for certain real estate 
                        transactions.--A real estate purchase or lease 
                        described in subparagraph (B)(ii) does not 
                        include a lease or purchase of--
                                    ``(I) a single `housing unit', as 
                                defined by the Census Bureau; or
                                    ``(II) real estate in `urbanized 
                                areas', as defined by the Census Bureau 
                                in the most recent census, except as 
                                otherwise prescribed by the Committee 
                                in regulations in consultation with the 
                                Secretary of Defense.
                            ``(ii) Certain other investment.--The 
                        Committee shall prescribe regulations further 
                        defining covered transactions described in 
                        subparagraph (B)(iii) by reference to the 
                        technology, sector, subsector, transaction 
                        type, or other characteristics of such 
                        transactions.
                            ``(iii) Exemption for transactions from 
                        identified countries.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--The Committee 
                                shall, by regulation, define 
                                circumstances and procedures under 
                                which a transaction otherwise described 
                                in clause (ii) or (iii) of subparagraph 
                                (B) is excluded from the definition of 
                                `covered transaction' if each foreign 
                                person that is a party to the 
                                transaction, and each foreign person 
                                with ownership or control over a party 
                                to the transaction, is from (as 
                                determined by the Committee pursuant to 
                                regulations prescribed by the 
                                Committee), a country or part of a 
                                country identified by the Committee for 
                                purposes of this clause based on 
                                factors established by the Committee, 
                                such as--
                                            ``(aa) whether, in the sole 
                                        judgment of the Committee, the 
                                        process of the country for 
                                        reviewing the national security 
                                        effects of foreign investment 
                                        and associated international 
                                        cooperation effectively 
                                        safeguards national security 
                                        interests the country shares 
                                        with the United States;
                                            ``(bb) whether the country 
                                        is a member country of the 
                                        North Atlantic Treaty 
                                        Organization or is designated 
                                        as a major non-NATO ally 
                                        pursuant to section 517 of the 
                                        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
                                        (22 U.S.C. 2321k);
                                            ``(cc) whether the country 
                                        adheres to nonproliferation 
                                        control regimes, including 
                                        treaties and multilateral 
                                        supply guidelines, which shall 
                                        be informed by sources such as 
                                        the annual report on `Adherence 
                                        to and Compliance with Arms 
                                        Control, Nonproliferation and 
                                        Disarmament Agreements and 
                                        Commitments' required by 
                                        section 403 of the Arms Control 
                                        and Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 
                                        2593a);
                                            ``(dd) whether excluding 
                                        transactions by foreign persons 
                                        from the country advances the 
                                        national security objectives of 
                                        the United States; and
                                            ``(ee) any other factors 
                                        that the Committee determines 
                                        to be appropriate.
                                    ``(II) Recurring assessment of 
                                identified countries.--The Committee 
                                shall reconsider on a regular basis the 
                                identification of countries and parts 
                                of countries under subclause (I).
                            ``(iv) Exception for air carriers.--For 
                        purposes of subparagraph (B)(iii), the term 
                        `other investment' does not include an 
                        investment involving an air carrier, as defined 
                        in section 40102(a)(2) of title 49, United 
                        States Code, that holds a certificate issued 
                        under section 41102 of that title.
                            ``(v) Transfers of certain assets pursuant 
                        to bankruptcy proceedings or other defaults.--
                        The Committee shall prescribe regulations to 
                        clarify that the term `covered transaction' 
                        includes any transaction described in 
                        subparagraph (B) that arises pursuant to a 
                        bankruptcy proceeding or other form of default 
                        on debt.
                    ``(D) Passive investment defined.--
                            ``(i) In general.--For purposes of 
                        subparagraph (B)(iii), the term `passive 
                        investment' means an investment, direct or 
                        indirect, by a foreign person in a United 
                        States critical infrastructure company or 
                        United States critical technology company that 
                        meets the following criteria:
                                    ``(I) The investment is not 
                                described in subparagraph (B)(i).
                                    ``(II) The investment does not 
                                afford the foreign person--
                                            ``(aa) access to any 
                                        material nonpublic technical 
                                        information in the possession 
                                        of the United States critical 
                                        infrastructure company or 
                                        United States critical 
                                        technology company;
                                            ``(bb) membership or 
                                        observer rights on the board of 
                                        directors or equivalent 
                                        governing body of the United 
                                        States critical infrastructure 
                                        company or United States 
                                        critical technology company or 
                                        the right to nominate an 
                                        individual to a position on the 
                                        board of directors or 
                                        equivalent governing body; or
                                            ``(cc) any involvement, 
                                        other than through voting of 
                                        shares, in substantive 
                                        decisionmaking relating to the 
                                        management, governance, or 
                                        operation of the United States 
                                        critical infrastructure company 
                                        or United States critical 
                                        technology company.
                                    ``(III) The foreign person does not 
                                have a material parallel strategic 
                                partnership or other material financial 
                                relationship, as described in 
                                regulations prescribed by the 
                                Committee, with the United States 
                                critical infrastructure company or 
                                United States critical technology 
                                company.
                                    ``(IV) Such other criteria as the 
                                Committee may prescribe by regulation, 
                                which shall be consistent with the 
                                criteria specified in subclauses (I), 
                                (II), and (III).
                            ``(ii) Material nonpublic technical 
                        information defined.--For purposes of clause 
                        (i)(II)(aa), the term `material nonpublic 
                        technical information' has the meaning given 
                        that term in regulations prescribed by the 
                        Committee, except that the term does not 
                        include financial information regarding the 
                        performance of a United States critical 
                        infrastructure company or United States 
                        critical technology company.
                            ``(iii) Effect of level of ownership 
                        interest.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--A determination 
                                of whether an investment is a passive 
                                investment under clause (i) shall be 
                                made without regard to how low the 
                                level of ownership interest a foreign 
                                person would hold or acquire in a 
                                United States critical infrastructure 
                                company or United States critical 
                                technology company would be as a result 
                                of the investment.
                                    ``(II) Regulations.--
                                            ``(aa) In general.--The 
                                        Committee may prescribe 
                                        regulations specifying that any 
                                        investment (other than an 
                                        investment described in item 
                                        (bb)) greater than a certain 
                                        level or amount shall not be 
                                        considered a passive investment 
                                        under clause (i).
                                            ``(bb) Investment 
                                        described.--An investment 
                                        described in this item is an 
                                        investment--

                                                    ``(AA) by a foreign 
                                                person in a United 
                                                States critical 
                                                infrastructure company 
                                                or United States 
                                                critical technology 
                                                company through an 
                                                investment fund;

                                                    ``(BB) that does 
                                                not result in the 
                                                foreign person's 
                                                control of the United 
                                                States critical 
                                                technology or United 
                                                States critical 
                                                infrastructure company; 
                                                and

                                                    ``(CC) that 
                                                otherwise meets the 
                                                requirements of clauses 
                                                (i) and (iv), as 
                                                applicable.

                            ``(iv) Specific clarification for 
                        investment funds.--
                                    ``(I) Treatment of certain 
                                investments as passive investments.--
                                Notwithstanding clause (i)(II)(bb) and 
                                subject to regulations prescribed by 
                                the Committee, an indirect investment 
                                by a foreign person in a United States 
                                critical infrastructure company or 
                                United States critical technology 
                                company through an investment fund that 
                                affords the foreign person (or a 
                                designee of the foreign person) 
                                membership as a limited partner on an 
                                advisory board or a committee of the 
                                fund shall be considered a passive 
                                investment if--
                                            ``(aa) the fund is managed 
                                        exclusively by a general 
                                        partner, a managing member, or 
                                        an equivalent;
                                            ``(bb) the general partner, 
                                        managing member, or equivalent 
                                        is not a foreign person;
                                            ``(cc) the advisory board 
                                        or committee does not have the 
                                        ability to approve, disapprove, 
                                        or otherwise control--

                                                    ``(AA) investment 
                                                decisions of the fund; 
                                                or

                                                    ``(BB) decisions 
                                                made by the general 
                                                partner, managing 
                                                member, or equivalent 
                                                related to entities in 
                                                which the fund is 
                                                invested;

                                            ``(dd) the foreign person 
                                        does not otherwise have the 
                                        ability to control the fund, 
                                        including the authority--

                                                    ``(AA) to approve, 
                                                disapprove, or 
                                                otherwise control 
                                                investment decisions of 
                                                the fund;

                                                    ``(BB) to approve, 
                                                disapprove, or 
                                                otherwise control 
                                                decisions made by the 
                                                general partner, 
                                                managing member, or 
                                                equivalent related to 
                                                entities in which the 
                                                fund is invested; or

                                                    ``(CC) to 
                                                unilaterally dismiss, 
                                                prevent the dismissal 
                                                of, select, or 
                                                determine the 
                                                compensation of the 
                                                general partner, 
                                                managing member, or 
                                                equivalent; and

                                            ``(ee) the investment 
                                        otherwise meets the 
                                        requirements of this 
                                        subparagraph.
                                    ``(II) Treatment of certain 
                                waivers.--
                                            ``(aa) In general.--For the 
                                        purposes of items (cc) and (dd) 
                                        of subclause (I) and except as 
                                        provided in item (bb), a waiver 
                                        of a potential conflict of 
                                        interest, a waiver of an 
                                        allocation limitation, or a 
                                        similar activity, applicable to 
                                        a transaction pursuant to the 
                                        terms of an agreement governing 
                                        an investment fund shall not be 
                                        considered to constitute 
                                        control of investment decisions 
                                        of the fund or decisions 
                                        relating to entities in which 
                                        the fund is invested.
                                            ``(bb) Exception.--The 
                                        Committee may prescribe 
                                        regulations providing for 
                                        exceptions to item (aa) for 
                                        extraordinary circumstances.
                            ``(v) Regulations.--The Committee shall 
                        prescribe regulations providing guidance on the 
                        types of transactions that the Committee 
                        considers to be passive investment.
                    ``(E) United states critical infrastructure company 
                defined.--For purposes of this paragraph, the term 
                `United States critical infrastructure company' means a 
                United States business that is, owns, operates, or 
                primarily provides services to, an entity or entities 
                that operate within a critical infrastructure sector or 
                subsector, as defined by regulations prescribed by the 
                Committee.
                    ``(F) United states critical technology company 
                defined.--For purposes of this paragraph, the term 
                `United States critical technology company' means a 
                United States business that produces, designs, tests, 
                manufactures, or develops one or more critical 
                technologies, or a subset of such technologies, as 
                defined by regulations prescribed by the Committee.
            ``(6) Critical infrastructure.--The term `critical 
        infrastructure' means, subject to regulations prescribed by the 
        Committee, systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so 
        vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction 
        of such systems or assets would have a debilitating impact on 
        national security.
            ``(7) Critical materials.--The term `critical materials' 
        means physical materials essential to national security, 
        subject to regulations prescribed by the Committee.
            ``(8) Critical technologies.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `critical technologies' 
                means technology, components, or technology items that 
                are essential or could be essential to national 
                security, identified for purposes of this section 
                pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Committee.
                    ``(B) Inclusion of certain items.--The term 
                `critical technologies' includes the following:
                            ``(i) Defense articles or defense services 
                        included on the United States Munitions List 
                        set forth in the International Traffic in Arms 
                        Regulations under subchapter M of chapter I of 
                        title 22, Code of Federal Regulations.
                            ``(ii) Items included on the Commerce 
                        Control List set forth in Supplement No. 1 to 
                        part 774 of the Export Administration 
                        Regulations under subchapter C of chapter VII 
                        of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, and 
                        controlled--
                                    ``(I) pursuant to multilateral 
                                regimes, including for reasons relating 
                                to national security, chemical and 
                                biological weapons proliferation, 
                                nuclear nonproliferation, or missile 
                                technology; or
                                    ``(II) for reasons relating to 
                                regional stability or surreptitious 
                                listening.
                            ``(iii) Specially designed and prepared 
                        nuclear equipment, parts and components, 
                        materials, software, and technology covered by 
                        part 810 of title 10, Code of Federal 
                        Regulations (relating to assistance to foreign 
                        atomic energy activities).
                            ``(iv) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and 
                        material covered by part 110 of title 10, Code 
                        of Federal Regulations (relating to export and 
                        import of nuclear equipment and material).
                            ``(v) Select agents and toxins covered by 
                        part 331 of title 7, Code of Federal 
                        Regulations, part 121 of title 9 of such Code, 
                        or part 73 of title 42 of such Code.
                            ``(vi) Emerging and foundational 
                        technologies identified pursuant to section 
                        1725(a) of the Foreign Investment Risk Review 
                        Modernization Act of 2018.
            ``(9) Foreign government-controlled transaction.--The term 
        `foreign government-controlled transaction' means any covered 
        transaction that could result in the control of any United 
        States business by a foreign government or an entity controlled 
        by or acting on behalf of a foreign government.
            ``(10) Foreign person.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `foreign person' 
                means--
                            ``(i) any foreign national, foreign 
                        government, or foreign entity; or
                            ``(ii) any entity over which control is 
                        exercised or exercisable by a foreign national, 
                        foreign government, or foreign entity.
                    ``(B) Foreign entity defined.--
                            ``(i) In general.--For purposes of 
                        subparagraph (A) and except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the term `foreign entity' means 
                        any branch, partnership, group or subgroup, 
                        association, estate, trust, corporation or 
                        division of a corporation, or organization 
                        organized under the laws of a foreign country 
                        if--
                                    ``(I) the principal place of 
                                business of the entity is outside the 
                                United States; or
                                    ``(II) the equity securities of the 
                                entity are primarily traded on one or 
                                more foreign exchanges.
                            ``(ii) Exception.--For purposes of 
                        subparagraph (A), the term `foreign entity' 
                        does not include an entity that demonstrates to 
                        the Committee that a majority of the equity 
                        interest in the entity is ultimately owned by 
                        United States nationals.
            ``(11) Intelligence community.--The term `intelligence 
        community' has the meaning given that term in section 3(4) of 
        the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
            ``(12) Investment.--The term `investment' means the 
        acquisition of equity interest, including contingent equity 
        interest, as further defined in regulations prescribed by the 
        Committee.
            ``(13) Lead agency.--The term `lead agency' means the 
        agency or agencies designated as the lead agency or agencies 
        pursuant to subsection (k)(5).
            ``(14) National security.--The term `national security' 
        shall be construed so as to include those issues relating to 
        `homeland security', including its application to critical 
        infrastructure.
            ``(15) Party.--The term `party' has the meaning given that 
        term in regulations prescribed by the Committee.
            ``(16) United states.--The term `United States' means the 
        several States, the District of Columbia, and any territory or 
        possession of the United States.
            ``(17) United states business.--The term `United States 
        business' means a person engaged in interstate commerce in the 
        United States.''.

SEC. 1704. ACCEPTANCE OF WRITTEN NOTICES.

    Section 721(b)(1)(C)(i) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 
U.S.C. 4565(b)(1)(C)(i)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Any party'' and inserting the following:
                                    ``(I) In general.--Any party''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                                    ``(II) Comments and acceptance.--
                                            ``(aa) In general.--Subject 
                                        to item (cc), the Committee 
                                        shall provide comments on a 
                                        draft or final written notice 
                                        or accept a final written 
                                        notice submitted under 
                                        subclause (I) with respect to a 
                                        covered transaction not later 
                                        than the date that is 10 
                                        business days after the date of 
                                        submission of the draft or 
                                        final notice.
                                            ``(bb) Completeness.--If 
                                        the Committee determines that a 
                                        draft or final written notice 
                                        described in item (aa) is not 
                                        complete, the Committee shall 
                                        notify the party or parties to 
                                        the transaction in writing that 
                                        the notice is not complete and 
                                        provide an explanation of all 
                                        material respects in which the 
                                        notice is incomplete.
                                            ``(cc) Stipulations 
                                        required.--The timing 
                                        requirement under item (aa) 
                                        shall apply only in a case in 
                                        which the parties stipulate 
                                        under clause (vi) that the 
                                        transaction is a covered 
                                        transaction.''.

SEC. 1705. INCLUSION OF PARTNERSHIP AND SIDE AGREEMENTS IN NOTICE.

    Section 721(b)(1)(C) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 
U.S.C. 4565(b)(1)(C)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(iv) Inclusion of partnership and side 
                        agreements.--A written notice submitted under 
                        clause (i) by a party to a covered transaction 
                        shall include a copy of any partnership 
                        agreements, integration agreements, or other 
                        side agreements relating to the transaction, 
                        including any such agreements relating to the 
                        transfer of intellectual property, as specified 
                        in regulations prescribed by the Committee.''.

SEC. 1706. DECLARATIONS FOR CERTAIN COVERED TRANSACTIONS.

    Section 721(b)(1)(C) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 
U.S.C. 4565(b)(1)(C)), as amended by section 1705, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(v) Declarations for certain covered 
                        transactions.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--A party to any 
                                covered transaction may submit to the 
                                Committee a declaration with basic 
                                information regarding the transaction 
                                instead of a written notice under 
                                clause (i).
                                    ``(II) Regulations.--The Committee 
                                shall prescribe regulations 
                                establishing requirements for 
                                declarations submitted under this 
                                clause. In prescribing such 
                                regulations, the Committee shall ensure 
                                that such declarations are submitted as 
                                abbreviated notifications that would 
                                not generally exceed 5 pages in length.
                                    ``(III) Committee response to 
                                declaration.--
                                            ``(aa) In general.--Upon 
                                        receiving a declaration under 
                                        this clause with respect to a 
                                        covered transaction, the 
                                        Committee may, at the 
                                        discretion of the Committee--

                                                    ``(AA) request that 
                                                the parties to the 
                                                transaction file a 
                                                written notice under 
                                                clause (i);

                                                    ``(BB) inform the 
                                                parties to the 
                                                transaction that the 
                                                Committee is not able 
                                                to complete action 
                                                under this section with 
                                                respect to the 
                                                transaction on the 
                                                basis of the 
                                                declaration and that 
                                                the parties may file a 
                                                written notice under 
                                                clause (i) to seek 
                                                written notification 
                                                from the Committee that 
                                                the Committee has 
                                                completed all action 
                                                under this section with 
                                                respect to the 
                                                transaction;

                                                    ``(CC) initiate a 
                                                unilateral review of 
                                                the transaction under 
                                                subparagraph (D); or

                                                    ``(DD) notify the 
                                                parties in writing that 
                                                the Committee has 
                                                completed all action 
                                                under this section with 
                                                respect to the 
                                                transaction.

                                            ``(bb) Timing.--The 
                                        Committee shall take action 
                                        under item (aa) not later than 
                                        30 days after receiving a 
                                        declaration under this clause.
                                            ``(cc) Rule of 
                                        construction.--Nothing in this 
                                        subclause (other than item 
                                        (aa)(CC)) shall be construed to 
                                        affect the authority of the 
                                        President or the Committee to 
                                        take any action authorized by 
                                        this section with respect to a 
                                        covered transaction.
                                    ``(IV) Mandatory declarations.--
                                            ``(aa) Regulations.--The 
                                        Committee shall prescribe 
                                        regulations specifying the 
                                        types of covered transactions 
                                        for which the Committee 
                                        requires a declaration under 
                                        this subclause.
                                            ``(bb) Certain covered 
                                        transactions with foreign 
                                        government interests.--

                                                    ``(AA) In 
                                                general.--Except as 
                                                provided in subitem 
                                                (BB), the parties to a 
                                                covered transaction 
                                                shall submit a 
                                                declaration described 
                                                in subclause (I) with 
                                                respect to the 
                                                transaction if the 
                                                transaction involves an 
                                                investment that results 
                                                in the acquisition, 
                                                directly or indirectly, 
                                                of a substantial 
                                                interest in a United 
                                                States critical 
                                                infrastructure company 
                                                or United States 
                                                critical technology 
                                                company by a foreign 
                                                person in which a 
                                                foreign government has, 
                                                directly or indirectly, 
                                                a substantial interest.

                                                    ``(BB) Exception.--
                                                The submission of a 
                                                declaration described 
                                                in subclause (I) shall 
                                                not be required with 
                                                respect to a 
                                                transaction described 
                                                in subitem (AA) if each 
                                                foreign person that is 
                                                a party to the 
                                                transaction, and each 
                                                foreign person with 
                                                ownership or control 
                                                over a party to the 
                                                transaction, is from a 
                                                country or part of a 
                                                country identified by 
                                                the Committee under 
                                                subsection 
                                                (a)(5)(C)(iii).

                                                    ``(CC) Substantial 
                                                interest defined.--In 
                                                this item, the term 
                                                `substantial interest' 
                                                has the meaning given 
                                                that term in 
                                                regulations which the 
                                                Committee shall 
                                                prescribe. In 
                                                developing those 
                                                regulations, the 
                                                Committee shall 
                                                consider the means by 
                                                which a foreign 
                                                government could 
                                                influence the actions 
                                                of a foreign person, 
                                                including through board 
                                                membership, ownership 
                                                interest, or 
                                                shareholder rights. An 
                                                interest that is a 
                                                passive investment (as 
                                                defined in subsection 
                                                (a)(5)(D)) or that is 
                                                less than a 10 percent 
                                                voting interest shall 
                                                not be considered a 
                                                substantial interest.

                                            ``(cc) Other declarations 
                                        required by committee.--The 
                                        Committee shall require the 
                                        submission of a declaration 
                                        described in subclause (I) with 
                                        respect to any covered 
                                        transaction identified under 
                                        regulations prescribed by the 
                                        Committee for purposes of this 
                                        item, at the discretion of the 
                                        Committee and based on 
                                        appropriate factors, such as--

                                                    ``(AA) the 
                                                technology, industry, 
                                                economic sector, or 
                                                economic subsector in 
                                                which the United States 
                                                business that is a 
                                                party to the 
                                                transaction trades or 
                                                of which it is a part;

                                                    ``(BB) the 
                                                difficulty of remedying 
                                                the harm to national 
                                                security that may 
                                                result from completion 
                                                of the transaction;

                                                    ``(CC) the 
                                                difficulty of obtaining 
                                                information on the type 
                                                of covered transaction 
                                                through other means; 
                                                and

                                                    ``(DD) the 
                                                difficulty of obtaining 
                                                information on the 
                                                ultimate ownership of 
                                                the foreign person that 
                                                is a party to the 
                                                transaction.

                                            ``(dd) Exception.--The 
                                        submission of a declaration 
                                        described in subclause (I) 
                                        shall not be required pursuant 
                                        to this subclause with respect 
                                        to an investment by an 
                                        investment fund if--

                                                    ``(AA) the fund is 
                                                managed exclusively by 
                                                a general partner, a 
                                                managing member, or an 
                                                equivalent;

                                                    ``(BB) the general 
                                                partner, managing 
                                                member, or equivalent 
                                                is not a foreign 
                                                person; and

                                                    ``(CC) the 
                                                investment fund 
                                                satisfies, with respect 
                                                to any foreign person 
                                                with membership as a 
                                                limited partner on an 
                                                advisory board or a 
                                                committee of the fund, 
                                                the criteria specified 
                                                in items (cc) and (dd) 
                                                of subsection 
                                                (a)(5)(D)(iv).

                                            ``(ee) Submission of 
                                        written notice as an 
                                        alternative.--Parties to a 
                                        covered transaction for which a 
                                        declaration is required under 
                                        this subclause may instead 
                                        elect to submit a written 
                                        notice under clause (i).
                                            ``(ff) Timing of 
                                        submission.--

                                                    ``(AA) In 
                                                general.--A declaration 
                                                required to be 
                                                submitted with respect 
                                                to a covered 
                                                transaction by this 
                                                subclause shall be 
                                                submitted not later 
                                                than 45 days before the 
                                                completion of the 
                                                transaction.

                                                    ``(BB) Written 
                                                notice.--If, pursuant 
                                                to item (ee), the 
                                                parties to a covered 
                                                transaction elect to 
                                                submit a written notice 
                                                under clause (i) 
                                                instead of a 
                                                declaration under this 
                                                subclause, the written 
                                                notice shall be filed 
                                                not later than 90 days 
                                                before the completion 
                                                of the transaction.

                                            ``(gg) Penalties.--The 
                                        Committee may impose a penalty 
                                        pursuant to subsection (h)(3) 
                                        with respect to a party that 
                                        fails to comply with this 
                                        subclause.''.

SEC. 1707. STIPULATIONS REGARDING TRANSACTIONS.

    Section 721(b)(1)(C) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 
U.S.C. 4565(b)(1)(C)), as amended by section 1706, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(vi) Stipulations regarding 
                        transactions.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--In a written 
                                notice submitted under clause (i) or a 
                                declaration submitted under clause (v) 
                                with respect to a transaction, a party 
                                to the transaction may--
                                            ``(aa) stipulate that the 
                                        transaction is a covered 
                                        transaction; and
                                            ``(bb) if the party 
                                        stipulates that the transaction 
                                        is a covered transaction under 
                                        item (aa), stipulate that the 
                                        transaction is a foreign 
                                        government-controlled 
                                        transaction.
                                    ``(II) Basis for stipulation.--A 
                                written notice submitted under clause 
                                (i) or a declaration submitted under 
                                clause (v) that includes a stipulation 
                                under subclause (I) shall include a 
                                description of the basis for the 
                                stipulation.''.

SEC. 1708. AUTHORITY FOR UNILATERAL INITIATION OF REVIEWS.

    Section 721(b)(1) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
4565(b)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) and (F) as 
        subparagraphs (F) and (G), respectively;
            (2) in subparagraph (D)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
                ``subparagraph (F)'' and inserting ``subparagraph 
                (G)'';
                    (B) in clause (i), by inserting ``(other than a 
                covered transaction described in subparagraph (E))'' 
                after ``any covered transaction'';
                    (C) by striking clause (ii) and inserting the 
                following:
                            ``(ii) any covered transaction described in 
                        subparagraph (E), if any party to the 
                        transaction submitted false or misleading 
                        material information to the Committee in 
                        connection with the Committee's consideration 
                        of the transaction or omitted material 
                        information, including material documents, from 
                        information submitted to the Committee; or''; 
                        and
                    (D) in clause (iii)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subclause (I), 
                        by striking ``any covered transaction that has 
                        previously been reviewed or investigated under 
                        this section,'' and inserting ``any covered 
                        transaction described in subparagraph (E),'';
                            (ii) in subclause (I), by striking 
                        ``intentionally'';
                            (iii) in subclause (II), by striking ``an 
                        intentional'' and inserting ``a''; and
                            (iv) in subclause (III), by inserting 
                        ``adequate and appropriate'' before ``remedies 
                        or enforcement tools''; and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:
                    ``(E) Covered transactions described.--A covered 
                transaction is described in this subparagraph if--
                            ``(i) the Committee has informed the 
                        parties to the transaction in writing that the 
                        Committee has completed all action under this 
                        section with respect to the transaction; or
                            ``(ii) the President has announced a 
                        decision not to exercise the President's 
                        authority under subsection (d) with respect to 
                        the transaction.''.

SEC. 1709. TIMING FOR REVIEWS AND INVESTIGATIONS.

    Section 721(b) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
4565(b)), as amended by section 1708, is further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(F), by striking ``30'' and inserting 
        ``45'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraph (C) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(C) Timing.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), any investigation under 
                        subparagraph (A) shall be completed before the 
                        end of the 45-day period beginning on the date 
                        on which the investigation commenced.
                            ``(ii) Extension for extraordinary 
                        circumstances.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--In extraordinary 
                                circumstances (as defined by the 
                                Committee in regulations), the 
                                chairperson may, at the request of the 
                                head of the lead agency, extend an 
                                investigation under subparagraph (A) 
                                for one 30-day period.
                                    ``(II) Nondelegation.--The 
                                authority of the chairperson and the 
                                head of the lead agency referred to in 
                                subclause (I) may not be delegated to 
                                any person other than the Deputy 
                                Secretary of the Treasury or the deputy 
                                head (or equivalent thereof) of the 
                                lead agency, as the case may be.
                                    ``(III) Notification to parties.--
                                If the Committee extends the deadline 
                                under subclause (I) with respect to a 
                                covered transaction, the Committee 
                                shall notify the parties to the 
                                transaction of the extension.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) Tolling of deadlines during lapse in 
        appropriations.--Any deadline or time limitation under this 
        subsection shall be tolled during a lapse in appropriations.''.

SEC. 1710. MONITORING OF NON-NOTIFIED AND NON-DECLARED TRANSACTIONS.

    Section 721(b)(1) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
4565(b)(1)), as amended by sections 1708 and 1709, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(H) Monitoring of non-notified and non-declared 
                transactions.--The Committee shall establish a 
                mechanism to identify covered transactions for which--
                            ``(i) a notice under clause (i) of 
                        subparagraph (C) or a declaration under clause 
                        (v) of that subparagraph is not submitted to 
                        the Committee; and
                            ``(ii) information is reasonably 
                        available.''.

SEC. 1711. SUBMISSION OF CERTIFICATIONS TO CONGRESS.

    Section 721(b)(3)(C) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 
U.S.C. 4565(b)(3)(C)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (iii)--
                    (A) in subclause (II), by inserting ``and the 
                Select Committee on Intelligence'' after ``Urban 
                Affairs''; and
                    (B) in subclause (IV), by inserting ``and the 
                Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence'' after 
                ``Financial Services'';
            (2) in clause (iv), by striking subclause (II) and 
        inserting the following:
                                    ``(II) Delegation of 
                                certifications.--
                                            ``(aa) In general.--Subject 
                                        to item (bb), the chairperson, 
                                        in consultation with the 
                                        Committee, may determine the 
                                        level of official to whom the 
                                        signature requirement under 
                                        subclause (I) for the 
                                        chairperson and the head of the 
                                        lead agency may be delegated. 
                                        The level of official to whom 
                                        the signature requirement may 
                                        be delegated may differ based 
                                        on any factor relating to a 
                                        transaction that the 
                                        chairperson, in consultation 
                                        with the Committee, deems 
                                        appropriate, including the type 
                                        or value of the transaction.
                                            ``(bb) Limitation on 
                                        delegation with respect to 
                                        certain transactions.--The 
                                        signature requirement under 
                                        subclause (I) may be delegated 
                                        not below the level of the 
                                        Assistant Secretary of the 
                                        Treasury or an equivalent 
                                        official of the lead agency in 
                                        the case of a covered 
                                        transaction--

                                                    ``(AA) assessed by 
                                                the Director of 
                                                National Intelligence 
                                                under paragraph (4) as 
                                                more likely than not to 
                                                threaten the national 
                                                security of the United 
                                                States;

                                                    ``(BB) with respect 
                                                to which the Committee 
                                                conducts an 
                                                investigation under 
                                                paragraph (2); or

                                                    ``(CC) with respect 
                                                to which a request is 
                                                made by an official at 
                                                the Deputy Assistant 
                                                Secretary or Assistant 
                                                Secretary level of an 
                                                agency or department 
                                                represented on the 
                                                Committee, or an 
                                                equivalent thereof, 
                                                that the transaction be 
                                                reviewed by the 
                                                Assistant Secretary of 
                                                the Treasury and an 
                                                equivalent official of 
                                                the lead agency.

                                            ``(cc) Limitation on 
                                        delegation with respect to 
                                        other transactions.--In the 
                                        case of any covered transaction 
                                        not described in item (bb), the 
                                        signature requirement under 
                                        subclause (I) may be delegated 
                                        not below the level of a Deputy 
                                        Assistant Secretary of the 
                                        Treasury or an equivalent 
                                        official of the lead agency.''; 
                                        and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(v) Authority to consolidate documents.--
                        Instead of transmitting a separate certified 
                        notice or certified report under subparagraph 
                        (A) or (B) with respect to each covered 
                        transaction, the Committee may, on a monthly 
                        basis, transmit such notices and reports in a 
                        consolidated document to the Members of 
                        Congress specified in clause (iii).''.

SEC. 1712. ANALYSIS BY DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.

    Section 721(b)(4) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
4565(b)(4)) is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Analysis required.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        subparagraph (B), the Director of National 
                        Intelligence shall expeditiously carry out a 
                        thorough analysis of any threat to the national 
                        security of the United States posed by any 
                        covered transaction, which shall include the 
                        identification of any recognized gaps in the 
                        collection of intelligence relevant to the 
                        analysis.
                            ``(ii) Views of intelligence community.--
                        The Director shall seek and incorporate into 
                        the analysis required by clause (i) the views 
                        of all affected or appropriate agencies of the 
                        intelligence community with respect to the 
                        transaction.
                            ``(iii) Updates.--At the request of the 
                        lead agency, the Director shall update the 
                        analysis conducted under clause (i) with 
                        respect to a covered transaction with respect 
                        to which an agreement was entered into under 
                        subsection (l)(3)(A).
                            ``(iv) Independence and objectivity.--The 
                        Committee shall ensure that its processes under 
                        this section preserve the ability of the 
                        Director to conduct analysis under clause (i) 
                        that is independent, objective, and consistent 
                        with all applicable directives, policies, and 
                        analytic tradecraft standards of the 
                        intelligence community.'';
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) as 
        subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:
                    ``(B) Basic threat information.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Director of National 
                        Intelligence may provide the Committee with 
                        basic information regarding any threat to the 
                        national security of the United States posed by 
                        a covered transaction described in clause (ii) 
                        instead of conducting the analysis required by 
                        subparagraph (A).
                            ``(ii) Covered transaction described.--A 
                        covered transaction is described in this clause 
                        if--
                                    ``(I) the transaction is described 
                                in subsection (a)(5)(B)(ii);
                                    ``(II) the Director of National 
                                Intelligence has completed an analysis 
                                pursuant to subparagraph (A) involving 
                                each foreign person that is a party to 
                                the transaction during the 12 months 
                                preceding the review or investigation 
                                of the transaction under this section; 
                                or
                                    ``(III) the transaction otherwise 
                                meets criteria agreed upon by the 
                                Committee and the Director for purposes 
                                of this subparagraph.'';
            (4) in subparagraph (C), as redesignated by paragraph (2), 
        by striking ``20'' and inserting ``30''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) Assessment of operational impact.--The 
                Director may provide to the Committee an assessment, 
                separate from the analyses under subparagraphs (A) and 
                (B), of any operational impact of a covered transaction 
                on the intelligence community and a description of any 
                actions that have been or will be taken to mitigate any 
                such impact.
                    ``(G) Submission to congress.--The Committee shall 
                submit the analysis required by subparagraph (A) with 
                respect to a covered transaction to the Select 
                Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the 
                Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
                of Representatives upon the conclusion of action under 
                this section (other than compliance plans under 
                subsection (l)(6)) with respect to the transaction.''.

SEC. 1713. INFORMATION SHARING.

    Section 721(c) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
4565(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Any information'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), any 
        information'';
            (2) by striking ``, except as may be relevant'' and all 
        that follows and inserting a period; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Exceptions.--Paragraph (1) shall not prohibit the 
        disclosure of the following:
                    ``(A) Information relevant to any administrative or 
                judicial action or proceeding.
                    ``(B) Information to Congress or any duly 
                authorized committee or subcommittee of Congress.
                    ``(C) Information to any domestic or foreign 
                governmental entity, under the direction of the 
                chairperson, to the extent necessary for national 
                security purposes and pursuant to appropriate 
                confidentiality and classification arrangements.
                    ``(D) Information that the parties have consented 
                to be disclosed to third parties.
            ``(3) Cooperation with allies and partners.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The chairperson, in consultation 
                with other members of the Committee, should establish a 
                formal process for the exchange of information under 
                paragraph (2)(C) with governments of countries that are 
                allies or partners of the United States, in the 
                discretion of the chairperson, to protect the national 
                security of the United States and those countries.
                    ``(B) Requirements.--The process established under 
                subparagraph (A) should, in the discretion of the 
                chairperson--
                            ``(i) be designed to facilitate the 
                        harmonization of action with respect to trends 
                        in investment and technology that could pose 
                        risks to the national security of the United 
                        States and countries that are allies or 
                        partners of the United States;
                            ``(ii) provide for the sharing of 
                        information with respect to specific 
                        technologies and entities acquiring such 
                        technologies as appropriate to ensure national 
                        security; and
                            ``(iii) include consultations and meetings 
                        with representatives of the governments of such 
                        countries on a recurring basis.''.

SEC. 1714. ACTION BY THE PRESIDENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 721(d) of the Defense Production Act of 
1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565(d)) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (4), the President 
        may, with respect to a covered transaction that threatens to 
        impair the national security of the United States, take such 
        action for such time as the President considers appropriate to 
        suspend or prohibit the transaction or to require 
        divestment.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``not later than 15 
        days'' and all that follows and inserting the following: ``with 
        respect to a covered transaction not later than 15 days after 
        the earlier of--
                    ``(A) the date on which the investigation of the 
                transaction under subsection (b) is completed; or
                    ``(B) the date on which the Committee otherwise 
                refers the transaction to the President under 
                subsection (l)(2).''.
    (b) Civil Penalties.--Section 721(h)(3)(A) of the Defense 
Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565(h)(3)(A)) is amended by striking 
``including any mitigation'' and all that follows through ``subsection 
(l)'' and inserting ``including any mitigation agreement entered into, 
conditions imposed, or order issued pursuant to this section''.

SEC. 1715. JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    Section 721(e) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
4565(e)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The actions'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--The actions''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Civil actions.--A civil action challenging an action 
        or finding of the Committee under this section may be brought 
        only in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of 
        Columbia Circuit.
            ``(3) Procedures for review of privileged information.--If 
        a civil action challenging an action or finding of the 
        Committee under this section is brought, and the court 
        determines that protected information in the administrative 
        record, including classified, sensitive law enforcement, 
        sensitive security, or other information subject to privilege 
        or protections under any provision of law, is necessary to 
        resolve the challenge, that information shall be submitted ex 
        parte and in camera to the court and the court shall maintain 
        that information under seal.
            ``(4) Applicability of use of information provisions.--The 
        use of information provisions of sections 106, 305, 405, and 
        706 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 
        U.S.C. 1806, 1825, 1845, and 1881e) shall not apply in a civil 
        action brought under this subsection.''.

SEC. 1716. MEMBERSHIP AND STAFF OF COMMITTEE.

    (a) Hiring Authority.--Section 721(k) of the Defense Production Act 
of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565(k)) is amended by striking paragraph (4) and 
inserting the following:
            ``(4) Hiring authority.--
                    ``(A) Senior officials.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Each member of the 
                        Committee shall designate an Assistant 
                        Secretary, or an equivalent official, who is 
                        appointed by the President, by and with the 
                        advice and consent of the Senate, to carry out 
                        such duties related to the Committee as the 
                        member of the Committee may delegate.
                            ``(ii) Department of the treasury.--In 
                        addition to officials of the Department of the 
                        Treasury authorized under section 301 of title 
                        31, United States Code, or any other provision 
                        of law, there are authorized at the Department 
                        of the Treasury, to carry out such duties 
                        related to the Committee as the Secretary of 
                        the Treasury may delegate, consistent with this 
                        section and reflecting the expanded authorities 
                        of the Committee and the role of the Department 
                        of the Treasury in implementing those 
                        authorities under the amendments made by the 
                        Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization 
                        Act of 2018, the following:
                                    ``(I) One official, who is 
                                appointed by the President, by and with 
                                the advice and consent of the Senate, 
                                who shall be compensated at a rate not 
                                to exceed the rate of basic pay payable 
                                for level III of the Executive Schedule 
                                under section 5314 of title 5, United 
                                States Code.
                                    ``(II) One official, who is 
                                appointed by the President, by and with 
                                the advice and consent of the Senate, 
                                who shall be compensated at a rate not 
                                to exceed the rate of basic pay payable 
                                for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
                                under section 5315 of title 5, United 
                                States Code.
                    ``(B) Special hiring authority.--The heads of the 
                departments and agencies represented on the Committee 
                may appoint, without regard to the provisions of 
                sections 3309 through 3318 of title 5, United States 
                Code, candidates directly to positions in the 
                competitive service (as defined in section 2102 of that 
                title) in their respective departments and agencies to 
                administer this section.''.
    (b) Procedures for Recusal of Members of Committee for Conflicts of 
Interest.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States 
shall--
            (1) establish procedures for the recusal of any member of 
        the Committee that has a conflict of interest with respect to a 
        covered transaction (as defined in section 721 of the Defense 
        Production Act of 1950, as amended by section 1703);
            (2) submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services 
        of the House of Representatives a report describing those 
        procedures; and
            (3) brief the committees specified in paragraph (1) on the 
        report required by paragraph (2).

SEC. 1717. ACTIONS BY THE COMMITTEE TO ADDRESS NATIONAL SECURITY RISKS.

    Section 721(l) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
4565(l)) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Mitigation, 
        Tracking, and Postconsummation Monitoring and Enforcement'' and 
        inserting ``Actions by the Committee to Address National 
        Security Risks'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as 
        paragraphs (3), (5), and (6), respectively;
            (3) by inserting before paragraph (3), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (2), the following:
            ``(1) Suspension of transactions.--The Committee, acting 
        through the chairperson, may suspend a proposed or pending 
        covered transaction that may pose a risk to the national 
        security of the United States for such time as the covered 
        transaction is under review or investigation under subsection 
        (b).
            ``(2) Referral to president.--The Committee may, at any 
        time during the review or investigation of a covered 
        transaction under subsection (b), complete the action of the 
        Committee with respect to the transaction and refer the 
        transaction to the President for action pursuant to subsection 
        (d).'';
            (4) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in the subparagraph heading, by 
                        striking ``In general'' and inserting 
                        ``Agreements and conditions'';
                            (ii) by striking ``The Committee'' and 
                        inserting the following:
                            ``(i) In general.--The Committee'';
                            (iii) by striking ``threat'' and inserting 
                        ``risk''; and
                            (iv) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(ii) Abandonment of transactions.--If a 
                        party to a covered transaction has voluntarily 
                        chosen to abandon the transaction, the 
                        Committee or lead agency, as the case may be, 
                        may negotiate, enter into or impose, and 
                        enforce any agreement or condition with any 
                        party to the covered transaction for purposes 
                        of effectuating such abandonment and mitigating 
                        any risk to the national security of the United 
                        States that arises as a result of the covered 
                        transaction.
                            ``(iii) Agreements and conditions relating 
                        to completed transactions.--The Committee or 
                        lead agency, as the case may be, may negotiate, 
                        enter into or impose, and enforce any agreement 
                        or condition with any party to a completed 
                        covered transaction in order to mitigate any 
                        interim risk to the national security of the 
                        United States that may arise as a result of the 
                        covered transaction until such time that the 
                        Committee has completed action pursuant to 
                        subsection (b) or the President has taken 
                        action pursuant to subsection (d) with respect 
                        to the transaction.''; and
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(B) Limitations.--An agreement may not be entered 
                into or condition imposed under subparagraph (A) with 
                respect to a covered transaction unless the Committee 
                determines that the agreement or condition resolves the 
                national security concerns posed by the transaction, 
                taking into consideration whether the agreement or 
                condition is reasonably calculated to--
                            ``(i) be effective;
                            ``(ii) allow for compliance with the terms 
                        of the agreement or condition in an 
                        appropriately verifiable way; and
                            ``(iii) enable effective monitoring of 
                        compliance with and enforcement of the terms of 
                        the agreement or condition.
                    ``(C) Jurisdiction.--The provisions of section 
                706(b) shall apply to any mitigation agreement entered 
                into or condition imposed under subparagraph (A).'';
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (3), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (2), the following:
            ``(4) Risk-based analysis required.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Any determination of the 
                Committee to suspend a covered transaction under 
                paragraph (1), to refer a covered transaction to the 
                President under paragraph (2), or to negotiate, enter 
                into or impose, or enforce any agreement or condition 
                under paragraph (3)(A) with respect to a covered 
                transaction, shall be based on a risk-based analysis, 
                conducted by the Committee, of the effects on the 
                national security of the United States of the covered 
                transaction, which shall include an assessment of the 
                threat, vulnerabilities, and consequences to national 
                security related to the transaction.
                    ``(B) Actions of members of the committee.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Any member of the 
                        Committee who concludes that a covered 
                        transaction poses an unresolved national 
                        security concern shall recommend to the 
                        Committee that the Committee suspend the 
                        transaction under paragraph (1), refer the 
                        transaction to the President under paragraph 
                        (2), or negotiate, enter into or impose, or 
                        enforce any agreement or condition under 
                        paragraph (3)(A) with respect to the 
                        transaction. In making that recommendation, the 
                        member shall propose or contribute to the risk-
                        based analysis required by subparagraph (A).
                            ``(ii) Failure to reach consensus.--If the 
                        Committee fails to reach consensus with respect 
                        to a recommendation under clause (i) regarding 
                        a covered transaction, the members of the 
                        Committee who support an alternative 
                        recommendation shall produce--
                                    ``(I) a written statement 
                                justifying the alternative 
                                recommendation; and
                                    ``(II) as appropriate, a risk-based 
                                analysis that supports the alternative 
                                recommendation.
                    ``(C) Definitions.--For purposes of subparagraph 
                (A), the terms `threat', `vulnerabilities', and 
                `consequences to national security' shall have the 
                meanings given those terms by the Committee by 
                regulation.'';
            (6) in paragraph (5)(B), as redesignated by paragraph (2), 
        by striking ``(as defined in the National Security Act of 
        1947)''; and
            (7) in paragraph (6), as redesignated by paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``paragraph (1)'' and 
                        inserting ``paragraph (3)''; and
                            (ii) by striking the second sentence and 
                        inserting the following: ``The lead agency may, 
                        at its discretion, seek and receive the 
                        assistance of other departments or agencies in 
                        carrying out the purposes of this paragraph.'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by striking ``designated agency'' and 
                        all that follows through ``The lead agency in 
                        connection'' and inserting ``designated 
                        agency.--The lead agency in connection'';
                            (ii) by striking clause (ii); and
                            (iii) by redesignating subclauses (I) and 
                        (II) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and 
                        by moving such clauses, as so redesignated, 2 
                        ems to the left; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Compliance plans.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In the case of a covered 
                        transaction with respect to which an agreement 
                        is entered into under paragraph (3)(A), the 
                        Committee or lead agency, as the case may be, 
                        shall formulate, adhere to, and keep updated a 
                        plan for monitoring compliance with the 
                        agreement.
                            ``(ii) Elements.--Each plan required by 
                        clause (i) with respect to an agreement entered 
                        into under paragraph (3)(A) shall include an 
                        explanation of--
                                    ``(I) which member of the Committee 
                                will have primary responsibility for 
                                monitoring compliance with the 
                                agreement;
                                    ``(II) how compliance with the 
                                agreement will be monitored;
                                    ``(III) how frequently compliance 
                                reviews will be conducted;
                                    ``(IV) whether an independent 
                                entity will be utilized under 
                                subparagraph (E) to conduct compliance 
                                reviews; and
                                    ``(V) what actions will be taken if 
                                the parties fail to cooperate regarding 
                                monitoring compliance with the 
                                agreement.
                    ``(D) Effect of lack of compliance.--If, at any 
                time after a mitigation agreement or condition is 
                entered into or imposed under paragraph (3)(A), the 
                Committee or lead agency, as the case may be, 
                determines that a party or parties to the agreement or 
                condition are not in compliance with the terms of the 
                agreement or condition, the Committee or lead agency 
                may, in addition to the authority of the Committee to 
                impose penalties pursuant to subsection (h)(3) and to 
                unilaterally initiate a review of any covered 
                transaction under subsection (b)(1)(D)(iii)--
                            ``(i) negotiate a plan of action for the 
                        party or parties to remediate the lack of 
                        compliance, with failure to abide by the plan 
                        or otherwise remediate the lack of compliance 
                        serving as the basis for the Committee to find 
                        a material breach of the agreement or 
                        condition;
                            ``(ii) require that the party or parties 
                        submit a written notice under clause (i) of 
                        subsection (b)(1)(C) or a declaration under 
                        clause (v) of that subsection with respect to a 
                        covered transaction initiated after the date of 
                        the determination of noncompliance and before 
                        the date that is 5 years after the date of the 
                        determination to the Committee to initiate a 
                        review of the transaction under subsection (b); 
                        or
                            ``(iii) seek injunctive relief.
                    ``(E) Use of independent entities to monitor 
                compliance.--If the parties to an agreement entered 
                into under paragraph (3)(A) enter into a contract with 
                an independent entity from outside the United States 
                Government for the purpose of monitoring compliance 
                with the agreement, the Committee shall take such 
                action as is necessary to prevent a conflict of 
                interest from arising by ensuring that the independent 
                entity owes no fiduciary duty to the parties.
                    ``(F) Successors and assigns.--Any agreement or 
                condition entered into or imposed under paragraph 
                (3)(A) shall be considered binding on all successors 
                and assigns unless and until the agreement or condition 
                terminates on its own terms or is otherwise terminated 
                by the Committee in its sole discretion.
                    ``(G) Additional compliance measures.--Subject to 
                subparagraphs (A) through (F), the Committee shall 
                develop and agree upon methods for evaluating 
                compliance with any agreement entered into or condition 
                imposed with respect to a covered transaction that will 
                allow the Committee to adequately ensure compliance 
                without unnecessarily diverting Committee resources 
                from assessing any new covered transaction for which a 
                written notice under clause (i) of subsection (b)(1)(C) 
                or declaration under clause (v) of that subsection has 
                been filed, and if necessary, reaching a mitigation 
                agreement with or imposing a condition on a party to 
                such covered transaction or any covered transaction for 
                which a review has been reopened for any reason.''.

SEC. 1718. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT AND OTHER REPORTING 
              REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Modification of Annual Report.--Section 721(m) of the Defense 
Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565(m)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(A) A list of all notices filed and all reviews 
                or investigations of covered transactions completed 
                during the period, with--
                            ``(i) a description of the outcome of each 
                        review or investigation, including whether an 
                        agreement was entered into or condition was 
                        imposed under subsection (l)(3)(A) with respect 
                        to the transaction being reviewed or 
                        investigated, and whether the President took 
                        any action under this section with respect to 
                        that transaction;
                            ``(ii) basic information on each party to 
                        each such transaction;
                            ``(iii) the nature of the business 
                        activities or products of the United States 
                        business with which the transaction was entered 
                        into or intended to be entered into; and
                            ``(iv) information about any withdrawal 
                        from the process.''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) Statistics on compliance plans conducted and 
                actions taken by the Committee under subsection (l)(6), 
                including subparagraph (D) of that subsection, during 
                that period, a general assessment of the compliance of 
                parties with agreements entered into and conditions 
                imposed under subsection (l)(3)(A) that are in effect 
                during that period, including a description of any 
                actions taken by the Committee to impose penalties or 
                initiate a unilateral review pursuant to subsection 
                (b)(1)(D)(iii), and any recommendations for improving 
                the enforcement of such agreements and conditions.
                    ``(H) Cumulative and, as appropriate, trend 
                information on the number of declarations filed under 
                subsection (b)(1)(C)(v), the actions taken by the 
                Committee in response to those declarations, the 
                business sectors involved in those declarations, and 
                the countries involved in those declarations.
                    ``(I) A description of--
                            ``(i) the methods used by the Committee to 
                        monitor non-notified and non-declared 
                        transactions under subsection (b)(1)(H);
                            ``(ii) potential methods to improve such 
                        monitoring and the resources required to do so; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) the number of transactions 
                        identified through the mechanism established 
                        under that subsection during the reporting 
                        period and the number of such transactions 
                        flagged for further review.'';
            (2) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``critical technologies'' and all 
                that follows through ``In order to assist'' and 
                inserting ``critical technologies.--In order to 
                assist'';
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (B); and
                    (C) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and by moving 
                such subparagraphs, as so redesignated, 2 ems to the 
                left; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Form of report.--
                    ``(A) In general.--All appropriate portions of the 
                annual report under paragraph (1) may be classified. An 
                unclassified version of the report, as appropriate, 
                consistent with safeguarding national security and 
                privacy, shall be made available to the public.
                    ``(B) Inclusions in unclassified version.--The 
                unclassified version of the report required under 
                paragraph (1) shall include, with respect to covered 
                transactions for the reporting period--
                            ``(i) the number of notices submitted under 
                        subsection (b)(1)(C)(i);
                            ``(ii) the number of declarations submitted 
                        under subsection (b)(1)(C)(v) and the number of 
                        such declarations that were required under 
                        subclause (IV) of that subsection;
                            ``(iii) the number of declarations 
                        submitted under subsection (b)(1)(C)(v) for 
                        which the Committee required resubmission as 
                        notices under subsection (b)(1)(C)(i);
                            ``(iv) the average number of days that 
                        elapsed between submission of a declaration 
                        under subsection (b)(1)(C)(v) and the 
                        acceptance of the declaration by the Committee;
                            ``(v) information on the time it took the 
                        Committee to provide comments on, or to accept, 
                        notices submitted under subsection 
                        (b)(1)(C)(i), including--
                                    ``(I) the average number of 
                                business days that elapsed between the 
                                date of submission of a draft notice 
                                and the date on which the Committee 
                                provided written comments on the draft 
                                notice;
                                    ``(II) the average number of 
                                business days that elapsed between the 
                                date of submission of a final notice 
                                and the date on which the Committee 
                                accepted or provided written comments 
                                on the final notice; and
                                    ``(III) if the average number of 
                                business days for a response by the 
                                Committee reported under subclause (I) 
                                or (II) exceeded 10 business days--
                                            ``(aa) an explanation of 
                                        the causes of such delays, 
                                        including whether such delays 
                                        are caused by resource 
                                        shortages, unusual fluctuations 
                                        in the volume of notices, 
                                        transaction characteristics, or 
                                        other factors; and
                                            ``(bb) an explanation of 
                                        the steps that the Committee 
                                        anticipates taking to mitigate 
                                        the causes of such delays and 
                                        otherwise to improve the 
                                        ability of the Committee to 
                                        provide comments on, or to 
                                        accept, notices within 10 
                                        business days;
                            ``(vi) the number of reviews or 
                        investigations conducted under subsection (b);
                            ``(vii) the number of investigations that 
                        were subject to an extension under subsection 
                        (b)(2)(C)(ii);
                            ``(viii) information on the duration of 
                        those reviews and investigations, including the 
                        average number of days required to complete 
                        those reviews and investigations;
                            ``(ix) the number of notices submitted 
                        under subsection (b)(1)(C)(i) and declarations 
                        submitted under subsection (b)(1)(C)(v) that 
                        were rejected by the Committee;
                            ``(x) the number of such notices and 
                        declarations that were withdrawn by a party to 
                        the covered transaction;
                            ``(xi) the number of such withdrawals that 
                        were followed by the submission of a subsequent 
                        such notice or declaration relating to a 
                        substantially similar covered transaction; and
                            ``(xii) such other specific, cumulative, or 
                        trend information that the Committee determines 
                        is advisable to provide for an assessment of 
                        the time required for reviews and 
                        investigations of covered transactions under 
                        this section.''.
    (b) Report on Chinese Investment.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and every 2 years thereafter through 
        2026, the Secretary of Commerce shall submit to Congress and 
        the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States a 
        report on foreign direct investment transactions made by 
        entities of the People's Republic of China in the United 
        States.
            (2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) Total foreign direct investment from the 
                People's Republic of China in the United States, 
                including total foreign direct investment disaggregated 
                by ultimate beneficial owner.
                    (B) A breakdown of investments from the People's 
                Republic of China in the United States by value using 
                the following categories:
                            (i) Less than $50,000,000.
                            (ii) Greater than or equal to $50,000,000 
                        and less than $100,000,000.
                            (iii) Greater than or equal to $100,000,000 
                        and less than $1,000,000,000.
                            (iv) Greater than or equal to 
                        $1,000,000,000 and less than $2,000,000,000.
                            (v) Greater than or equal to $2,000,000,000 
                        and less than $5,000,000,000.
                            (vi) Greater than or equal to 
                        $5,000,000,000.
                    (C) A breakdown of investments from the People's 
                Republic of China in the United States by 2-digit North 
                American Industry Classification System code.
                    (D) A breakdown of investments from the People's 
                Republic of China in the United States by investment 
                type, using the following categories:
                            (i) Businesses established.
                            (ii) Businesses acquired.
                    (E) A breakdown of investments from the People's 
                Republic of China in the United States by government 
                and non-government investments, including volume, 
                sector, and type of investment within each category.
                    (F) A list of companies incorporated in the United 
                States purchased through government investment by the 
                People's Republic of China.
                    (G) The number of United States affiliates of 
                entities under the jurisdiction of the People's 
                Republic of China, the total employees at those 
                affiliates, and the valuation for any publicly traded 
                United States affiliate of such an entity.
                    (H) An analysis of patterns in the investments 
                described in subparagraphs (A) through (F), including 
                in volume, type, and sector, and the extent to which 
                those patterns of investments align with the objectives 
                outlined by the Government of the People's Republic of 
                China in its Made in China 2025 plan, including a 
                comparative analysis of investments from the People's 
                Republic of China in the United States and all foreign 
                direct investment in the United States.
                    (I) An identification of any limitations on the 
                ability of the Secretary of Commerce to collect 
                comprehensive information that is reasonably and 
                lawfully available about foreign investment in the 
                United States from the People's Republic of China on a 
                timeline necessary to complete reports every 2 years as 
                required by paragraph (1), including--
                            (i) an identification of any discrepancies 
                        between government and private sector estimates 
                        of investments from the People's Republic of 
                        China in the United States;
                            (ii) a description of the different 
                        methodologies or data collection methods, 
                        including by private sector entities, used to 
                        measure foreign investment that may result in 
                        different estimates; and
                            (iii) recommendations for enhancing the 
                        ability of the Secretary of Commerce to improve 
                        data collection of information about foreign 
                        investment in the United States from the 
                        People's Republic of China.
            (3) Extension of deadline.--If, as a result of a limitation 
        identified under paragraph (2)(I), the Secretary of Commerce 
        determines that the Secretary will be unable to submit a report 
        at the time required by paragraph (1), the Secretary may 
        request additional time to complete the report.
    (c) Report on Certain Investments by State-owned or State-
controlled Entities.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, an appropriate member or members of 
        the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States shall, 
        in coordination with the chairperson of the Committee, submit 
        to Congress a report assessing--
                    (A) national security threats related to 
                investments in the United States by state-owned or 
                state-controlled entities in the manufacture or 
                assembly of rolling stock or other assets for use in 
                freight rail, public transportation, or intercity 
                passenger rail systems, including the construction of 
                new facilities;
                    (B) how the number and types of such investments 
                could affect any such threats; and
                    (C) the authority and ability of the Committee to 
                respond to such threats.
            (2) Consultation.--The member or members of the Committee 
        on Foreign Investment in the United States preparing the report 
        required by paragraph (1) shall consult with the Secretary of 
        Transportation and the head of any agency that is not 
        represented on the Committee that has significant technical 
        expertise related to the assessments required by paragraph (1).

SEC. 1719. CERTIFICATION OF NOTICES AND INFORMATION.

    Section 721(n) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
4565(n)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and by moving such 
        subparagraphs, as so redesignated, 2 ems to the right;
            (2) by striking ``Each notice'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--Each notice'';
            (3) by striking ``paragraph (3)(B)'' and inserting 
        ``paragraph (6)(B)'';
            (4) by striking ``paragraph (1)(A)'' and inserting 
        ``paragraph (3)(A)'';
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Effect of failure to submit.--The Committee may not 
        complete a review under this section of a covered transaction 
        and may recommend to the President that the President suspend 
        or prohibit the transaction or require divestment under 
        subsection (d) if the Committee determines that a party to the 
        transaction has--
                    ``(A) failed to submit a statement required by 
                paragraph (1); or
                    ``(B) included false or misleading information in a 
                notice or information described in paragraph (1) or 
                omitted material information from such notice or 
                information.
            ``(3) Applicability of law on fraud and false statements.--
        The Committee shall prescribe regulations expressly providing 
        for the application of section 1001 of title 18, United States 
        Code, to all information provided to the Committee under this 
        section by any party to a covered transaction.''.

SEC. 1720. IMPLEMENTATION PLANS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the chairperson of the Committee on Foreign 
Investment in the United States and the Secretary of Commerce shall, in 
consultation with the appropriate members of the Committee--
            (1) develop plans to implement this title; and
            (2) submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        report on the plans developed under paragraph (1), which shall 
        include a description of--
                    (A) the timeline and process to implement the 
                provisions of, and amendments made by, this title;
                    (B) any additional staff necessary to implement the 
                plans; and
                    (C) the resources required to effectively implement 
                the plans.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
        and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Financial Services and the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1721. ASSESSMENT OF NEED FOR ADDITIONAL RESOURCES FOR COMMITTEE.

    The President shall--
            (1) determine whether and to what extent the expansion of 
        the responsibilities of the Committee on Foreign Investment in 
        the United States pursuant to the amendments made by this title 
        necessitates additional resources for the Committee and the 
        departments and agencies represented on the Committee to 
        perform their functions under section 721 of the Defense 
        Production Act of 1950, as amended by this title; and
            (2) if the President determines that additional resources 
        are necessary, include in the budget of the President for 
        fiscal year 2019 and each fiscal year thereafter submitted to 
        Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, 
        a request for such additional resources.

SEC. 1722. FUNDING.

    Section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(o) Funding.--
            ``(1) Establishment of fund.--There is established in the 
        Treasury of the United States a fund, to be known as the 
        `Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States Fund' (in 
        this subsection referred to as the `Fund'), to be administered 
        by the chairperson.
            ``(2) Appropriation of funds for the committee.--There are 
        authorized to be appropriated to the Fund such sums as may be 
        necessary to perform the functions of the Committee.
            ``(3) Filing fees.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Committee may assess and 
                collect a fee in an amount determined by the Committee 
                in regulations, to the extent provided in advance in 
                appropriations Acts, without regard to section 9701 of 
                title 31, United States Code, and subject to 
                subparagraph (B), with respect to each covered 
                transaction for which a written notice is submitted to 
                the Committee under subsection (b)(1)(C)(i). The total 
                amount of fees collected under this paragraph may not 
                exceed the costs of administering this section.
                    ``(B) Determination of amount of fee.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In determining the 
                        amount of the fee to be assessed under 
                        subparagraph (A) with respect to a covered 
                        transaction, the Committee shall base the 
                        amount of the fee on the value of the 
                        transaction, taking into consideration--
                                    ``(I) the effect of the fee on 
                                small business concerns (as defined in 
                                section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 
                                U.S.C. 632));
                                    ``(II) the expenses of the 
                                Committee associated with conducting 
                                activities under this section;
                                    ``(III) the effect of the fee on 
                                foreign investment; and
                                    ``(IV) such other matters as the 
                                Committee considers appropriate.
                            ``(ii) Prioritization fee.--The Committee 
                        may establish a fee or fee scale to prioritize 
                        the timing of the response of the Committee to 
                        a draft or final written notice during the 
                        period before the Committee accepts the final 
                        written notice under subsection (b)(1)(C)(i), 
                        in the event that the Committee is unable to 
                        respond during the time required by subclause 
                        (II) of that subsection because of an unusually 
                        large influx of notices, or for other reasons.
                            ``(iii) Updates.--The Committee shall 
                        periodically reconsider and adjust the amount 
                        of the fee to be assessed under subparagraph 
                        (A) with respect to a covered transaction to 
                        ensure that the amount of the fee does not 
                        exceed the costs of administering this section 
                        and otherwise remains appropriate.
                    ``(C) Deposit and availability of fees.--
                Notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States 
                Code, fees collected under subparagraph (A) shall--
                            ``(i) be deposited into the Fund solely for 
                        use in carrying out activities under this 
                        section;
                            ``(ii) to the extent and in the amounts 
                        provided in advance in appropriations Acts, be 
                        available to the chairperson;
                            ``(iii) remain available until expended; 
                        and
                            ``(iv) be in addition to any appropriations 
                        made available to the members of the Committee.
            ``(4) Transfer of funds.--To the extent provided in advance 
        in appropriations Acts, the chairperson may transfer any 
        amounts in the Fund to any other department or agency 
        represented on the Committee for the purpose of addressing 
        emerging needs in carrying out activities under this section. 
        Amounts so transferred shall be in addition to any other 
        amounts available to that department or agency for that 
        purpose.''.

SEC. 1723. CENTRALIZATION OF CERTAIN COMMITTEE FUNCTIONS.

    Section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565), 
as amended by section 1722, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(p) Centralization of Certain Committee Functions.--
            ``(1) In general.--The chairperson, in consultation with 
        the Committee, may centralize certain functions of the 
        Committee within the Department of the Treasury for the purpose 
        of enhancing interagency coordination and collaboration in 
        carrying out the functions of the Committee under this section.
            ``(2) Functions.--Functions that may be centralized under 
        paragraph (1) include monitoring non-notified and non-declared 
        transactions pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(H), and other 
        functions as determined by the chairperson and the Committee.
            ``(3) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
        be construed as limiting the authority of any department or 
        agency represented on the Committee to represent its own 
        interests before the Committee.''.

SEC. 1724. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    Section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565), 
as amended by this title, is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(D)(iii)(I), by striking 
                ``subsection (l)(1)(A)'' and inserting ``subsection 
                (l)(3)(A)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)(B)(i)(I), by striking ``that 
                threat'' and inserting ``the risk'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(4)(A), by striking ``the foreign 
        interest exercising control'' and inserting ``a foreign person 
        that would acquire an interest in a United States business or 
        its assets as a result of the covered transaction''; and
            (3) in subsection (j), by striking ``merger, acquisition, 
        or takeover'' and inserting ``transaction''.

SEC. 1725. REQUIREMENTS TO IDENTIFY AND CONTROL THE EXPORT OF EMERGING 
              AND FOUNDATIONAL TECHNOLOGIES.

    (a) Identification of Technologies.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall establish and, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of 
        Defense, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of State, and 
        the heads of other Federal agencies as appropriate, lead, a 
        regular, ongoing interagency process to identify emerging and 
        foundational technologies that--
                    (A) are essential to the national security of the 
                United States; and
                    (B) are not critical technologies described in 
                clauses (i) through (v) of section 721(a)(8)(B) of the 
                Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended by section 
                1703.
            (2) Process.--The interagency process established under 
        subsection (a) shall--
                    (A) be informed by multiple sources of information, 
                including--
                            (i) publicly available information;
                            (ii) classified information, including 
                        relevant information provided by the Director 
                        of National Intelligence;
                            (iii) information relating to reviews and 
                        investigations of transactions by the Committee 
                        on Foreign Investment in the United States 
                        under section 721 of the Defense Production Act 
                        of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4565); and
                            (iv) information provided by the advisory 
                        committees established by the Secretary of 
                        Commerce to advise the Under Secretary of 
                        Commerce for Industry and Security on controls 
                        under the Export Administration Regulations, 
                        including the Emerging Technology and Research 
                        Advisory Committee;
                    (B) take into account--
                            (i) the development of emerging and 
                        foundational technologies in foreign countries;
                            (ii) the effect export controls imposed 
                        pursuant to this section may have on the 
                        development of such technologies in the United 
                        States; and
                            (iii) the effectiveness of export controls 
                        imposed pursuant to this section on limiting 
                        the proliferation of emerging and foundational 
                        technologies to foreign countries; and
                    (C) include a notice and comment period.
    (b) Commerce Controls.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Commerce shall establish 
        appropriate controls under the Export Administration 
        Regulations on the export, reexport, or in-country transfer of 
        technology identified pursuant to subsection (a), including by 
        prescribing additional regulations.
            (2) Levels of control.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of Commerce may, in 
                coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the 
                Secretary of State, and the heads of other Federal 
                agencies, as appropriate, specify the level of control 
                to apply under paragraph (1) with respect to the export 
                of technology described in that paragraph, including a 
                requirement for a license or other authorization for 
                the export, reexport, or in-country transfer of that 
                technology.
                    (B) Considerations.--In determining under 
                subparagraph (A) the level of control appropriate for 
                technology described in paragraph (1), the Secretary of 
                Commerce shall take into account--
                            (i) lists of countries to which exports 
                        from the United States are restricted; and
                            (ii) the potential end uses and end users 
                        of the technology.
                    (C) Minimum requirements.--At a minimum, except as 
                provided by paragraph (4), the Secretary of Commerce 
                shall require a license for the export, reexport, or 
                in-country transfer of technology described in 
                paragraph (1) to or in a country subject to an embargo, 
                including an arms embargo, imposed by the United 
                States.
            (3) Review of license applications.--
                    (A) Procedures.--The procedures set forth in 
                Executive Order 12981 (50 U.S.C. 4603 note; relating to 
                administration of export controls) or a successor order 
                shall apply to the review of an application for a 
                license or other authorization for the export, 
                reexport, or in-country transfer of technology 
                described in paragraph (1).
                    (B) Consideration of information relating to 
                national security.--In reviewing an application for a 
                license or other authorization for the export, 
                reexport, or in-country transfer of technology 
                described in paragraph (1), the Secretary of Commerce 
                shall take into account information provided by the 
                Director of National Intelligence regarding any threat 
                to the national security of the United States posed by 
                the proposed export, reexport, or transfer. The 
                Director of National Intelligence shall provide such 
                information on the request of the Secretary of 
                Commerce.
                    (C) Disclosures relating to collaborative 
                arrangements.--In the case of an application for a 
                license or other authorization for the export, 
                reexport, or in-country transfer of technology 
                described in paragraph (1) submitted by or on behalf of 
                a joint venture, joint development agreement, or 
                similar collaborative arrangement, the Secretary of 
                Commerce may require the applicant to identify, in 
                addition to any foreign person participating in the 
                arrangement, any foreign person with significant 
                ownership interest in a foreign person participating in 
                the arrangement.
            (4) Exceptions.--
                    (A) Mandatory exceptions.--The Secretary of 
                Commerce may not control under this subsection the 
                export of any technology--
                            (i) described in section 203(b) of the 
                        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
                        U.S.C. 1702(b)); or
                            (ii) if the regulation of the export of 
                        that technology is prohibited under any other 
                        provision of law.
                    (B) Regulatory exceptions.--In prescribing 
                regulations under paragraph (1), the Secretary of 
                Commerce may include regulatory exceptions to the 
                requirements of that paragraph.
                    (C) Additional exceptions.--The Secretary of 
                Commerce shall not be required to impose under 
                paragraph (1) a requirement for a license or other 
                authorization with respect to the export, reexport, or 
                in-country transfer of technology described in 
                paragraph (1) pursuant to any of the following 
                transactions:
                            (i) The sale or license of a finished item 
                        and the provision of associated technology if 
                        the United States person that is a party to the 
                        transaction generally makes the finished item 
                        and associated technology available to its 
                        customers, distributors, or resellers.
                            (ii) The sale or license to a customer of a 
                        product and the provision of integration 
                        services or similar services if the United 
                        States person that is a party to the 
                        transaction generally makes such services 
                        available to its customers.
                            (iii) The transfer of equipment and the 
                        provision of associated technology to operate 
                        the equipment if the transfer could not result 
                        in the foreign person using the equipment to 
                        produce critical technologies (as defined in 
                        section 721(a) of the Defense Production Act of 
                        1950, as amended by section 1703).
                            (iv) The procurement by the United States 
                        person that is a party to the transaction of 
                        goods or services, including manufacturing 
                        services, from a foreign person that is a party 
                        to the transaction, if the foreign person has 
                        no rights to exploit any technology contributed 
                        by the United States person other than to 
                        supply the procured goods or services.
                            (v) Any contribution and associated support 
                        by a United States person that is a party to 
                        the transaction to an industry organization 
                        related to a standard or specification, whether 
                        in development or declared, including any 
                        license of or commitment to license 
                        intellectual property in compliance with the 
                        rules of any standards organization (as defined 
                        by the Secretary by regulation).
    (c) Multilateral Controls.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Defense, 
        and the heads of other Federal agencies, as appropriate, may 
        propose that any technology identified pursuant to subsection 
        (a) be added to the list of technologies controlled by the 
        relevant multilateral export control regimes.
            (2) Items on commerce control list or united states 
        munitions list.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Secretary of State proposes 
                to a multilateral export control regime under paragraph 
                (1) to add a technology identified pursuant to 
                subsection (a) to the control list of that regime and 
                that regime does not add that technology to the control 
                list during the 3-year period beginning on the date of 
                the proposal, the applicable agency head may determine 
                whether national security concerns warrant the 
                continuation of unilateral export controls with respect 
                to that technology.
                    (B) Applicable agency head defined.--In this 
                paragraph, the term ``applicable agency head'' means--
                            (i) in the case of technology listed on the 
                        Commerce Control List set forth in Supplement 
                        No. 1 to part 774 of the Export Administration 
                        Regulations, the Secretary of Commerce, in 
                        consultation with the Secretary of Defense and 
                        the Secretary of State; and
                            (ii) in the case of technology listed on 
                        the United States Munitions List set forth in 
                        part 121 of title 22, Code of Federal 
                        Regulations, the Secretary of State, in 
                        consultation with the Secretary of Defense and 
                        the heads of other Federal agencies, as 
                        appropriate.
    (d) Report to Committee on Foreign Investment in the United 
States.--Not less frequently than every 180 days, the Secretary of 
Commerce, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary 
of State, and the heads of other Federal agencies, as appropriate, 
shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United 
States a report on the results of actions taken pursuant to this 
section.
    (e) Report to Congress.--Not less frequently than every 180 days, 
the Secretary of Commerce, in coordination with the Secretary of 
Defense, the Secretary of State, and the heads of other Federal 
agencies, as appropriate, shall submit a report on the results of 
actions taken pursuant to this section, including actions taken 
pursuant to subsections (a), (b), and (c), to--
            (1) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 
        the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed 
        Services, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, and the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (f) Modifications to Emerging Technology and Research Advisory 
Committee.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Commerce shall revise the 
        objectives of the Emerging Technology and Research Advisory 
        Committee, established by the Secretary under the Export 
        Administration Regulations, to include advising the interagency 
        process established under subsection (a) with respect to 
        emerging and foundational technologies.
            (2) Duties.--The Secretary--
                    (A) shall revise the duties of the Emerging 
                Technology and Research Advisory Committee to include 
                identifying emerging and foundational technologies that 
                may be developed over a period of 5 years or 10 years; 
                and
                    (B) may revise the duties of the Advisory Committee 
                to include identifying trends in--
                            (i) the ownership by foreign persons and 
                        foreign governments of such technologies;
                            (ii) the types of transactions related to 
                        such technologies engaged in by foreign persons 
                        and foreign governments;
                            (iii) the blending of private and 
                        government investment in such technologies; and
                            (iv) efforts to obfuscate ownership of such 
                        technologies or to otherwise circumvent the 
                        controls established under this section.
            (3) Meetings.--
                    (A) Frequency.--The Emerging Technology and 
                Research Advisory Committee should meet not less 
                frequently than every 120 days.
                    (B) Attendance.--A representative from each agency 
                participating in the interagency process established 
                under subsection (a) should be in attendance at each 
                meeting of the Emerging Technology and Research 
                Advisory Committee.
            (4) Classified information.--Not fewer than half of the 
        members of the Emerging Technology and Research Advisory 
        Committee should hold sufficient security clearances such that 
        classified information, including classified information 
        described in clauses (ii) and (iii) of subsection (a)(2)(A), 
        from the interagency process established under subsection (a) 
        can be shared with those members to inform the advice provided 
        by the Advisory Committee.
            (5) Applicability of federal advisory committee act.--
        Subsections (a)(1), (a)(3), and (b) of section 10 and sections 
        11, 13, and 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. 
        App.) shall not apply to the Emerging Technology and Research 
        Advisory Committee.
            (6) Report.--The Emerging Technology and Research Advisory 
        Committee shall include the findings of the Advisory Committee 
        under this subsection in the annual report to Congress required 
        by section 14 of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 
        U.S.C. 4616) (as continued in effect pursuant to the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et 
        seq.)).
    (g) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to alter or limit--
            (1) the authority of the President or the Secretary of 
        State to designate items as defense articles and defense 
        services for the purposes of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
        U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) or to otherwise regulate such items; or
            (2) the authority of the President under the Atomic Energy 
        Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), the Nuclear Non-
        Proliferation Act of 1978 (22 U.S.C. 3201 et seq.), the Energy 
        Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5801 et seq.), or the 
        Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.) (as 
        continued in effect pursuant to the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)) or any other 
        provision of law relating to the control of exports.
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Export administration regulations.--The term ``Export 
        Administration Regulations'' means subchapter C of chapter VII 
        of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations.
            (2) In-country transfer.--The term ``in-country transfer'' 
        has the meaning given to the term in the Export Administration 
        Regulations.
            (3) Reexport.--The term ``reexport'' has the meaning given 
        to the term in the Export Administration Regulations.
            (4) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' means any person subject to the jurisdiction of the 
        United States.

SEC. 1726. EXPORT CONTROL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authorities.--In order to enforce the provisions of the Export 
Administration Regulations under subchapter C of chapter VII of title 
15, Code of Federal Regulations, issued under the authority of the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) 
(pursuant to which the President has continued in effect authorities 
granted under the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4601 et 
seq.)), the President shall delegate to the Secretary of Commerce, in 
addition to existing authorities, the authority to authorize any law 
enforcement officer of the Department of Commerce to conduct 
investigations (including undercover investigations) in the United 
States and in other countries when permitted under such countries' laws 
using all applicable laws of the United States.
    (b) Best Practice Guidelines.--The Secretary of Commerce, in 
consultation with the heads of appropriate Federal agencies, may 
publish and update best practices guidelines to assist persons in 
developing and implementing, on a voluntary basis, effective export 
control programs in compliance with the Export Administration 
Regulations.
    (c) Confidentiality of Information.--
            (1) Exemptions from disclosure.--
                    (A) In general.--Information obtained under the 
                Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 2601 et 
                seq.) (as continued in effect pursuant to the 
                International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
                1701 et seq.)) may be withheld from disclosure only to 
                the extent permitted by statute, except that 
                information described in subparagraph (B) shall be 
                withheld from public disclosure and shall not be 
                subject to disclosure under section 552(b)(3) of title 
                5, United States Code, unless the release of such 
                information is determined by the Secretary to be in the 
                national interest.
                    (B) Information described.--Information described 
                in this subparagraph is information submitted or 
                obtained in connection with an application for a 
                license or other authorization to export, reexport, or 
                transfer items or engage in other activities, a 
                recordkeeping or reporting requirement, enforcement 
                activity, or other operations under the Export 
                Administration Act of 1979, including--
                            (i) the license application, license, or 
                        other authorization itself;
                            (ii) classification or advisory opinion 
                        requests, and any response to such a request;
                            (iii) license determinations and 
                        information pertaining to such determinations;
                            (iv) information or evidence obtained in 
                        the course of any investigation; and
                            (v) information obtained or furnished in 
                        connection with any international agreement, 
                        treaty, or other obligation.
            (2) Information to congress and gao.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this section shall be 
                construed as authorizing the withholding of information 
                from Congress or the Comptroller General of the United 
                States.
                    (B) Availability to congress.--
                            (i) In general.--Information obtained at 
                        any time under any provision of the Export 
                        Administration Act of 1979 or the Export 
                        Administration Regulations, including reports 
                        or license applications required under any such 
                        provision, shall be made available to a 
                        committee or subcommittee of Congress of 
                        appropriate jurisdiction, upon the request of 
                        the chairman or ranking member of the committee 
                        or subcommittee.
                            (ii) Prohibition on further disclosure.--No 
                        committee or subcommittee referred to in clause 
                        (i), or member thereof, may disclose any 
                        information made available under clause (i) 
                        that is submitted on a confidential basis 
                        unless the full committee determines that the 
                        withholding of that information is contrary to 
                        the national interest.
                    (C) Availability to gao.--
                            (i) In general.--Information described in 
                        subparagraph (B)(i) shall be subject to the 
                        limitations contained in section 716 of title 
                        31, United States Code.
                            (ii) Prohibition on further disclosure.--An 
                        officer or employee of the Government 
                        Accountability Office may not disclose, except 
                        to Congress in accordance with this paragraph, 
                        any information described in subparagraph 
                        (B)(i) that is submitted on a confidential 
                        basis or from which any individual can be 
                        identified.
            (3) Information sharing.--
                    (A) Exchange of information.--The heads of 
                departments, agencies, and offices with enforcement 
                authorities under the Export Administration Act of 
                1979, consistent with protection of law enforcement and 
                its sources and methods, shall exchange any licensing 
                and enforcement information with one another that is 
                necessary to facilitate enforcement efforts under this 
                section, and shall consult on a regular basis with one 
                another and with the heads of other departments, 
                agencies, and offices that obtain information subject 
                to this paragraph, in order to facilitate the exchange 
                of such information.
                    (B) Provision of information by federal 
                officials.--Any Federal official who obtains 
                information that is relevant to the enforcement of the 
                Export Administration Act of 1979, including 
                information pertaining to any investigation, shall 
                furnish such information to each appropriate 
                department, agency, or office with enforcement 
                responsibilities under this section to the extent 
                consistent with the protection of intelligence, 
                counterintelligence, and law enforcement sources, 
                methods, and activities.
                    (C) Exceptions.--The provisions of this paragraph 
                shall not apply to information subject to the 
                restrictions set forth in section 9 of title 13, United 
                States Code. Return information, as defined in section 
                6103(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, may be 
                disclosed only as authorized by that section.
                    (D) Information sharing with federal agencies.--
                Licensing or enforcement information obtained under the 
                Export Administration Act of 1979 may be shared with 
                heads of departments, agencies, and offices that do not 
                have enforcement authorities under that Act on a case-
                by-case basis, at the discretion of the Secretary of 
                Commerce. Such information may be shared only when the 
                Secretary makes a determination that the sharing of the 
                information is in the national interest.

SEC. 1727. PROHIBITION ON MODIFICATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES UNDER EXPORT 
              CONTROL AND SANCTIONS LAWS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Executive Office of the President may not modify any civil penalty, 
including a denial order, implemented by the Government of the United 
States with respect to a Chinese telecommunications company pursuant to 
a determination that the company has violated an export control or 
sanctions law of the United States until the date that is 30 days after 
the President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees 
that the company--
            (1) has not, for a period of one year, conducted activities 
        in violation of the laws of the United States; and
            (2) is fully cooperating with investigations into the 
        activities of the company conducted by the Government of the 
        United States, if any.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
        and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Financial Services and the Committee 
        on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1728. UNDER SECRETARY OF COMMERCE FOR INDUSTRY AND SECURITY.

    (a) In General.--On and after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, any reference in the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 
4601 et seq.) or any other law or regulation to the Under Secretary of 
Commerce for Export Administration shall be deemed to be a reference to 
the Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security.
    (b) Title 5.--Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Commerce for Export 
Administration'' and inserting ``Under Secretary of Commerce for 
Industry and Security''.
    (c) Continuation in Office.--The individual serving as Under 
Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration on the day before the 
date of the enactment of this Act may serve as the Under Secretary of 
Commerce for Industry and Security on and after that date without the 
need for renomination or reappointment.

SEC. 1729. LIMITATION ON CANCELLATION OF DESIGNATION OF SECRETARY OF 
              THE AIR FORCE AS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EXECUTIVE AGENT 
              FOR A CERTAIN DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT PROGRAM.

    (a) Limitation on Cancellation of Designation.--The Secretary of 
Defense may not implement the decision, issued on July 1, 2017, to 
cancel the designation, under Department of Defense Directive 4400.01E, 
entitled ``Defense Production Act Programs'' and dated October 12, 
2001, of the Secretary of the Air Force as the Department of Defense 
Executive Agent for the program carried out under title III of the 
Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4531 et seq.) until the date 
specified in subsection (c).
    (b) Designation.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall continue to 
serve as the sole and exclusive Department of Defense Executive Agent 
for the program described in subsection (a) until the date specified in 
subsection (c).
    (c) Date Specified.--The date specified in this subsection is the 
date of the enactment of a joint resolution or an Act approving the 
implementation of the decision described in subsection (a).

SEC. 1730. REVIEW OF AND REPORT ON CERTAIN DEFENSE TECHNOLOGIES 
              CRITICAL TO THE UNITED STATES MAINTAINING SUPERIOR 
              MILITARY CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Review Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Director of 
National Intelligence, in consultation with the Air Force Research 
Laboratory, the Defense Advanced Projects Research Agency, and such 
other appropriate research entities as the Secretary and the Director 
may identify, shall--
            (1) jointly carry out and complete a review of key national 
        security technology capability advantages, competitions, and 
        gaps between the United States and ``near peer'' nations;
            (2) develop a definition of ``near peer nation'' for 
        purposes of paragraph (1); and
            (3) submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        report on the findings of the Secretary and the Director with 
        respect to the review conducted under paragraph (1).
    (b) Elements.--The review conducted under paragraph (1) of 
subsection (a), and the report required by paragraph (3) of that 
subsection, shall identify, at a minimum, the following:
            (1) Key United States industries and research and 
        development activities expected to be critical to maintaining a 
        national security technology capability if, during the 5-year 
        period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary and the Director anticipate that--
                    (A) a United States industrial base shortfall will 
                exist; and
                    (B) United States industry will be unable to or 
                otherwise will not provide the needed capacity in a 
                timely manner without financial assistance from the 
                United States Government through existing statutory 
                authorities specifically intended for that purpose, 
                including assistance provided under title III of the 
                Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4531 et seq.) 
                and other appropriate authorities.
            (2) Key areas in which the United States currently enjoys a 
        technological advantage.
            (3) Key areas in which the United States no longer enjoys a 
        technological advantage.
            (4) Sectors of the defense industrial base in which the 
        United States lacks adequate productive capacity to meet 
        critical national defense needs.
            (5) Priority areas for which appropriate statutory 
        industrial base incentives should be applied as the most cost-
        effective, expedient, and practical alternative for meeting the 
        technology or defense industrial base needs identified under 
        this subsection, including--
                    (A) sustainment of critical production and supply 
                chain capabilities;
                    (B) commercialization of research and development 
                investments;
                    (C) scaling of emerging technologies; and
                    (D) other areas as determined by the Secretary and 
                the Director.
            (6) Priority funding recommendations with respect to key 
        areas that the Secretary, in consultation with the Director, 
        determines are--
                    (A) critical to the United States maintaining 
                superior military capabilities, especially with respect 
                to potential peer and near peer military or economic 
                competitors, during the 5-year period beginning on the 
                date of the enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) suitable for long-term investment from funds 
                made available under title III of the Defense 
                Production Act of 1950 and other appropriate statutory 
                authorities.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a)(3) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, 
        the Committee on Armed Services, and the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1731. BRIEFING ON INFORMATION FROM TRANSACTIONS REVIEWED BY 
              COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES 
              RELATING TO FOREIGN EFFORTS TO INFLUENCE DEMOCRATIC 
              INSTITUTIONS AND PROCESSES.

    Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Treasury (or a designee of the Secretary) shall 
provide a briefing to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the 
House of Representatives on--
            (1) transactions reviewed by the Committee on Foreign 
        Investment in the United States during the 5-year period 
        preceding the briefing that the Committee determined would have 
        allowed foreign persons to inappropriately influence democratic 
        institutions and processes within the United States and in 
        other countries; and
            (2) the disposition of such reviews, including any steps 
        taken by the Committee to address the risk of allowing foreign 
        persons to influence such institutions and processes.

SEC. 1732. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) Immediate Applicability of Certain Provisions.--The following 
shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and apply 
with respect to any covered transaction the review or investigation of 
which is initiated under section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 
1950 on or after such date of enactment:
            (1) Sections 1705, 1707, 1708, 1709, 1710, 1713, 1714, 
        1715, 1716, 1717, 1719, 1720, 1721, 1722, 1723, 1724, 1725, 
        1726, 1727, 1728, and 1729 and the amendments made by those 
        sections.
            (2) Section 1712 and the amendments made by that section 
        (except for clause (iii) of section 721(b)(4)(A) of the Defense 
        Production Act of 1950, as added by section 1712).
            (3) Paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), (5)(A)(i), (5)(B)(i), 
        (5)(B)(iv)(I), (5)(B)(v), (5)(C)(v), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), 
        (11), (12), (13), (14), (15), (16), and (17) of subsection (a) 
        of section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as 
        amended by section 1703.
            (4) Section 721(m)(4) of the Defense Production Act of 
        1950, as amended by section 1718 (except for clauses (ii), 
        (iii), (iv), and (v) of subparagraph (B) of that section).
    (b) Delayed Applicability of Certain Provisions.--
            (1) In general.--Any provision of or amendment made by this 
        title not specified in subsection (a) shall--
                    (A) take effect on the date that is 30 days after 
                publication in the Federal Register of a determination 
                by the chairperson of the Committee on Foreign 
                Investment in the United States that the regulations, 
                organizational structure, personnel, and other 
                resources necessary to administer the new provisions 
                are in place; and
                    (B) apply with respect to any covered transaction 
                the review or investigation of which is initiated under 
                section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 on or 
                after the date described in subparagraph (A).
            (2) Nondelegation of determination.--The determination of 
        the chairperson of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the 
        United States under paragraph (1)(A) may not be delegated.
    (c) Authorization for Pilot Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning on the date of the enactment of 
        this Act and ending on the date described in subsection 
        (b)(1)(A), the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United 
        States may, at its discretion, conduct one or more pilot 
        programs to implement any authority provided pursuant to any 
        provision of or amendment made by this title not specified in 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Publication in federal register.--A pilot program may 
        not commence until the date that is 30 days after publication 
        in the Federal Register of a determination by the chairperson 
        of the Committee of the scope of and procedures for the pilot 
        program. That determination may not be delegated.

SEC. 1733. SEVERABILITY.

    If any provision of this title or an amendment made by this title, 
or the application of such a provision or amendment to any person or 
circumstance, is held to be invalid, the application of that provision 
or amendment to other persons or circumstances and the remainder of the 
provisions of this title and the amendments made by this title, shall 
not be affected thereby.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019''.

SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE 
              SPECIFIED BY LAW.

    (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Three Years.--Except as 
provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI 
through XXVII and title XXIX for military construction projects, land 
acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and contributions 
to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program 
(and authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the 
later of--
            (1) October 1, 2023; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for military construction for fiscal year 2024.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations 
for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing 
projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of 
appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been 
obligated before the later of--
            (1) October 1, 2023; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for fiscal year 2024 for military construction projects, land 
        acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
        contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        Security Investment Program.

SEC. 2003. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Titles XXI through XXVII and title XXIX shall take effect on the 
later of--
            (1) October 1, 2018; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of this Act.

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                        Installation                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.....................................  Anniston Army Depot..............................       $5,200,000
California..................................  Fort Irwin.......................................      $29,000,000
Colorado....................................  Fort Carson......................................      $77,000,000
Georgia.....................................  Fort Gordon......................................      $99,000,000
Hawaii......................................  Wheeler Army Airfield............................      $50,000,000
Indiana.....................................  Crane Army Ammunition Activity...................      $16,000,000
Kentucky....................................  Fort Campbell....................................      $50,000,000
                                              Fort Knox........................................      $26,000,000
New Jersey..................................  Picatinny Arsenal................................      $41,000,000
New Mexico..................................  White Sands Missile Range........................      $40,000,000
New York....................................  West Point Military Reservation..................     $160,000,000
North Carolina..............................  Fort Bragg.......................................      $10,000,000
South Carolina..............................  Fort Jackson.....................................      $52,000,000
Texas.......................................  Fort Bliss.......................................      $24,000,000
                                              Fort Hood........................................       $9,600,000
Virginia....................................  Arlington National Cemetery Southern Expansion...      $30,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                       Installation                        Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.......................................  East Camp Grafenwoehr..........................      $31,000,000
Honduras......................................  Soto Cano Air Base.............................      $21,000,000
Korea.........................................  Camp Tango.....................................      $17,500,000
Kuwait........................................  Camp Arifjan...................................      $44,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.

    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:

                                              Army: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/Country                 Installation or Location             Units                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Italy..................................  Vicenza....................  Family Housing New             $95,134,000
                                                                       Construction............
Korea..................................  Camp Walker................  Family Housing                 $68,000,000
                                                                       Replacement Construction
Puerto Rico............................  Fort Buchanan..............  Family Housing                 $26,000,000
                                                                       Replacement Construction
Wisconsin                                Fort McCoy.................  Family Housing New              $6,200,000
                                                                       Construction.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $18,326,000.

SEC. 2103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2018, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Army as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2101 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2104. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2015 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of 
Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act (128 
Stat. 3670), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2019, or the date 
of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
for fiscal year 2020, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                 Army: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            Installation or
            State/Country                      Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California...........................  Military Ocean           Access Control Point...               $9,900,000
                                        Terminal, Concord.
Japan................................  Kadena Air Base........  Missile Magazine.......              $10,600,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2105. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2016 
              PROJECT.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (division B of 
Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1145) the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act (129 
Stat. 1146), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2023, or the date 
of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
for fiscal year 2024, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                  Army: Extension of 2016 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Virginia......................................  Arlington Cemetery (DAR).......................      $60,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                  Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona......................................  Camp Navajo.....................................      $14,800,000
California...................................   Camp Pendleton.................................     $199,630,000
                                               Coronado........................................      $77,780,000
                                               Lemoore.........................................     $112,690,000
                                               Miramar.........................................      $31,980,000
                                               Point Mugu......................................      $22,150,000
                                               San Diego.......................................     $156,540,000
                                               San Nicolas Island..............................      $31,010,000
                                               Seal Beach......................................     $139,630,000
 District of Columbia........................   Naval Observatory..............................     $115,600,000
Florida......................................  Mayport.........................................     $111,460,000
                                               Naval Air Station Whiting Field.................      $10,000,000
Georgia......................................  Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany..............      $31,900,000
Hawaii.......................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam..................      $45,000,000
                                               Kaneohe Bay.....................................      $66,100,000
                                               Pearl City......................................      $78,320,000
Maine........................................   Kittery........................................     $149,685,000
Mississippi..................................  Naval Construction Battalion Center.............      $22,300,000
North Carolina...............................  Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station...........     $240,830,000
                                               Camp Lejeune....................................      $51,300,000
Pennsylvania.................................  Philadelphia....................................      $71,050,000
South Carolina...............................  Beaufort........................................      $15,817,000
                                               Parris Island...................................      $35,190,000
Utah.........................................  Hill Air Force Base.............................     $105,520,000
Virginia.....................................  Portsmouth......................................      $26,120,000
                                               Quantico........................................      $13,100,000
Washington...................................  Bangor..........................................      $88,960,000
                                               Whidbey Island..................................      $27,380,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahamas.......................................  Andros Island...................................     $31,050,000
Bahrain Island................................  SW Asia.........................................     $26,340,000
Cuba..........................................  Guantanamo Bay..................................     $85,000,000
Germany.......................................  Panzer Kaserne..................................     $43,950,000
Guam..........................................  Joint Region Marianas...........................    $279,657,000
Japan.........................................  Kadena Air Base.................................      $9,049,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.

    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installation or location, in the number 
of units, and in the amount set forth in the following table:

                                              Navy: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                     Installation or Location             Units                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Guam...................................  Joint Region Marianas......  Replace Andersen Housing       $83,441,000
                                                                       PH III..................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $4,502,000.

SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2204(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may improve existing military family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $16,638,000.

SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2018, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Navy, as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2201 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                       Air Force: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska.........................................  Eielson Air Force Base......................        $63,800,000
Arizona........................................  Davis-Monthan Air Force Base................        $15,000,000
                                                 Luke Air Force Base.........................        $40,000,000
Florida........................................  Eglin Air Force Base........................        $62,863,000
                                                 MacDill Air Force Base......................         $3,100,000
Maryland.......................................  Joint Base Andrews..........................        $50,000,000
Massachusetts..................................  Hanscom Air Force Base......................       $225,000,000
Nebraska.......................................  Offutt Air Force Base.......................         $9,500,000
Nevada.........................................  Creech Air Force Base.......................        $59,000,000
                                                 Nellis Air Force Base.......................         $5,900,000
New Mexico.....................................  Holloman Air Force Base.....................        $85,000,000
                                                 Kirtland Air Force Base.....................         $7,000,000
New York.......................................  Rome Lab....................................        $14,200,000
 North Dakota..................................  Minot Air Force Base........................        $66,000,000
Ohio...........................................  Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.............       $116,100,000
Oklahoma.......................................  Altus Air Force Base........................        $12,000,000
                                                 Tinker Air Force Base.......................       $166,000,000
South Carolina.................................  Shaw Air Force Base.........................        $53,000,000
Utah...........................................  Hill Air Force Base.........................        $26,000,000
Washington.....................................  White Bluff.................................        $14,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Guam...........................................  Joint Region Marianas.......................         $9,800,000
Mariana Islands-Tinian.........................  Tinian......................................        $50,700,000
Qatar..........................................  Al Udeid....................................        $70,400,000
United Kingdom.................................  RAF Lakenheath..............................       $148,467,000
Worldwide Classified...........................  Classified Location.........................        $18,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military family 
housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out architectural and 
engineering services and construction design activities with respect to 
the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $3,199,000.

SEC. 2303. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2304(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may improve existing military family housing units in an 
amount not to exceed $75,247,000.

SEC. 2304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2018, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Air Force, as specified in 
the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2301 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2305. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN PHASED 
              PROJECT AUTHORIZED IN FISCAL YEARS 2015, 2016, AND 2017.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2015 (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3679) for Royal Air 
Force Croughton, for JIAC Consolidation Phase 1, the authorization 
contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (division B of Public Law 114-
92; 129 Stat. 1153) for Croughton Royal Air Force, for JIAC 
Consolidation Phase 2, and the authorization contained in the table in 
section 2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2697) for 
Royal Air Force Croughton, for JIAC Consolidation Phase 3, the location 
shall be United Kingdom, Unspecified.

SEC. 2306. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2017 PROJECT.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2017 (division B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2696) for Joint Base 
San Antonio, Texas, for construction of a basic military training 
recruit dormitory, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 
26,537 square meter dormitory in the amount of $92,300,000.

SEC. 2307. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2018 PROJECT.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018 (division B of Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1825) for the United 
States Air Force Academy, Colorado, for construction of a cyberworks 
facility, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a facility of up 
to 4,462 square meters that includes two real property gifts of 
construction of 929 and 465 square meters if such gift is accepted by 
the Secretary in accordance with section 2601 of title 10, United 
States Code.

SEC. 2308. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2019 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Project Authorizations.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
carry out military construction projects to construct--
            (1) a 6,702 square meter Joint Simulation Environment 
        Facility at Edwards Air Force Base, California, in the amount 
        of $43,000,000;
            (2) a 4,833 square meter Cyberspace Test Facility at Eglin 
        Air Force Base, Florida, in the amount of $38,000,000; and
            (3) a 4,735 square meter Joint Simulation Environment 
        Facility at Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada, in the amount of 
        $30,000,000.
    (b) Use of Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation Funds.--As 
provided for in the Defense Laboratory Modernization Pilot Program 
authorized by section 2803 of the Military Construction Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1169), the 
Secretary may use funds available for research, development, test, and 
evaluation for the projects described in subsection (a).

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska........................................  Clear Air Force Station.........................    $174,000,000
                                                Fort Greely.....................................      $8,000,000
                                                Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson.................     $14,000,000
Arkansas......................................  Little Rock Air Force Base......................     $14,000,000
California....................................  Camp Pendleton..................................     $12,596,000
                                                Coronado........................................     $71,088,000
                                                Defense Distribution Depot-Tracy................     $18,800,000
Colorado......................................  Fort Carson.....................................     $24,297,000
CONUS Classified..............................  Classified Location.............................     $49,222,000
 Kentucky.....................................  Fort Campbell...................................     $82,298,000
Maine.........................................  Kittery.........................................     $11,600,000
Maryland......................................  Fort Meade......................................    $805,000,000
Missouri......................................  St. Louis.......................................    $447,800,000
New Jersey....................................  Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst................     $10,200,000
 North Carolina...............................  Fort Bragg......................................     $32,366,000
                                                New River.......................................     $32,580,000
Oklahoma......................................  McAlester.......................................      $7,000,000
Texas.........................................  Joint Base San Antonio..........................     $10,200,000
                                                Red River Army Depot............................     $71,500,000
Virginia......................................  Dam Neck........................................      $8,959,000
                                                Fort A.P. Hill..................................     $11,734,000
                                                Fort Belvoir....................................      $6,127,000
                                                Humphreys Engineer Center.......................     $20,257,000
                                                Joint Base Langley-Eustis.......................     $12,700,000
                                                Pentagon........................................     $35,850,000
 Washington...................................  Joint Base Lewis-McChord........................     $26,200,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Country                                Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Belgium......................................  U.S. Army Garrison Benelux (Chievres).........        $14,305,000
Cuba.........................................  Guantanamo Bay................................         $9,080,000
Djibouti.....................................  Camp Lemonnier................................         $3,750,000
Germany......................................  Baumholder....................................        $11,504,000
                                               Kaiserslautern Air Base.......................        $99,955,000
                                               Weisbaden.....................................        $56,048,000
Greece.......................................  NSA Souda Bay.................................         $2,230,000
 Guam........................................  Naval Base Guam...............................         $4,634,000
                                               NSA Naples....................................           $990,000
Japan........................................  Camp McTureous................................        $94,851,000
                                               Iwakuni.......................................        $33,200,000
                                               Kadena Air Base...............................        $21,400,000
                                               Yokosuka......................................       $170,386,000
Unspecified Worldwide........................  Unspecified...................................        $15,693,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2402. ENERGY RESILIENCE AND CONSERVATION INVESTMENT PROGRAM.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for energy conservation 
projects as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of Defense may carry out energy conservation projects under 
chapter 173 of title 10, United States Code, for the installations or 
locations outside the United States, and in the amounts set forth in 
the following table:

                             Energy Conservation Projects: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.......................................  Anniston Army Depot.............................     $20,000,000
California....................................  Naval Base Ventura County.......................      $6,530,000
Colorado......................................  Schriever Air Force Base........................      $4,044,000
Florida.......................................  MacDill Air Force Base..........................      $3,700,000
Hawaii........................................  Bellows Air Force Base..........................      $2,944,000
                                                Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam..................      $4,500,000
Idaho.........................................  Mountain Home Air Force Base....................      $5,980,000
Indiana.......................................  NSA Crane.......................................      $6,890,000
Kansas........................................  Salina Training Center..........................      $3,500,000
Louisiana.....................................  Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base New Orleans      $5,340,000
Maryland......................................  NSA Bethesda....................................     $22,000,000
New Mexico....................................  Kirtland Air Force Base.........................        $462,000
Ohio..........................................  Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.................      $7,900,000
Pennsylvania..................................  Fort Indiantown Gap.............................      $2,150,000
South Carolina................................  Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort...............     $22,402,000
Texas.........................................  Camp Mabry......................................      $5,500,000
                                                Sheppard Air Force Base.........................      $9,404,000
Virginia......................................  Naval Air Station Oceana........................      $2,520,000
                                                NRO Headquarters................................        $571,000
 Washington...................................  Naval Base Kitsap...............................      $1,790,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2018, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2401 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2404. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2015 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of 
Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3669), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2401 of that Act 
(128 Stat. 3681), and amended by section 2406 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of 
Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1831), shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 2019, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
funds for military construction for fiscal year 2020, whichever is 
later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2015 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/Country                Installation or  Location            Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Japan..................................  Commander Fleet Activities   E.J. King High School          $37,681,000
                                          Sasebo....................   Replacement/Renovation..
                                         Okinawa....................  Kubasaki High School           $99,420,000
                                                                       Replacement/Renovation..
New Mexico.............................  Cannon Air Force Base......  SOF Squadron Operations        $23,333,000
                                                                       Facility (STS)..........
Virginia...............................  Pentagon...................  Redundant Chilled Water        $15,100,000
                                                                       Loop....................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2405. AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2018 PROJECT.

    The table in section 2401(a) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 105-91) is amended 
by inserting after the item relating to South Carolina the following 
new item:


 
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Texas..........................  Fort Bliss Blood             $8,300,000
                                  Processing Center
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to 
exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this 
purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously 
financed by the United States.

SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2018, for contributions by the Secretary 
of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, for the 
share of the United States of the cost of projects for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program authorized by 
section 2501 as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-kind Contributions

SEC. 2511. REPUBLIC OF KOREA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

    Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Korea for required in-
kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military 
construction projects for the installations or locations, and in the 
amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                 Republic of Korea Funded Construction Projects
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        Installation or
             Country                   Component           Location             Project             Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Korea...........................  Army..............  Camp Carroll......  Upgrade Electrical  $52,000,000
                                                                           Distribution,
                                                                           Phase 2..........
                                  Army..............  Camp Humphreys....  Site Development..  $7,800,000
                                  Army..............  Camp Humphreys....  Air Support         $25,000,000
                                                                           Operations
                                                                           Squadron.........
                                  Army..............  Camp Humphreys....  Unaccompanied       $76,000,000
                                                                           Enlisted
                                                                           Personnel
                                                                           Housing, P2......
                                  Army..............  Camp Humphreys....  Echelon Above       $123,000,000
                                                                           Brigade Engineer
                                                                           Battalion, VMF...
                                  Army..............  Camp Walker.......  Repair/ Replace     $8,000,000
                                                                           Sewer Piping
                                                                           System...........
                                  Navy..............  Chinhae...........  Indoor Training     $7,400,000
                                                                           Pool.............
                                  Navy..............  Pohang Air Base...  Replace Ordnance    $87,000,000
                                                                           Storage Magazines
                                  Air Force.........  Gimhae Air Base...  Airfield Damage     $7,600,000
                                                                           Repair Warehouse.
                                  Air Force.........  Gwangju Air Base..  Airfield Damage     $7,600,000
                                                                           Repair Warehouse.
                                  Air Force.........  Kunsan Air Base...  Explosive Ordnance  $8,000,000
                                                                           Disposal Facility
                                  Air Force.........  Kunsan Air Base...  Upgrade Flow-       $23,000,000
                                                                           Through Fuel
                                                                           System...........
                                  Air Force.........  Osan Air Base.....  5th Recon-          $12,000,000
                                                                           naissance
                                                                           Squadron Aircraft
                                                                           Shelter..........
                                  Air Force.........  Osan Air Base.....  Airfield Damage     $22,000,000
                                                                           Repair Facility..
                                  Air Force.........  Osan Air Base.....  Commun-ications HQ  $45,000,000
                                                                           Building.........
                                  Air Force.........  Suwon Air Base....  Airfield Damage     $7,200,000
                                                                           Repair Warehouse.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army National Guard locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                               Army National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska......................................  Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson..................      $27,000,000
Illinois....................................  Marseilles.......................................       $5,000,000
Montana.....................................  Malta............................................      $15,000,000
Nevada......................................  North Las Vegas..................................      $32,000,000
New Hampshire...............................  Pembroke.........................................      $12,000,000
North Dakota................................  Fargo............................................      $32,000,000
Ohio........................................  Camp Ravenna.....................................       $7,400,000
Oklahoma....................................  Lexington........................................      $11,000,000
Oregon......................................  Boardman.........................................      $11,000,000
South Dakota................................  Rapid City.......................................      $15,000,000
Texas.......................................  Houston..........................................      $15,000,000
Virginia....................................  Sandston.........................................      $89,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army Reserve locations inside the United 
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                                  Army Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California....................................  Barstow........................................      $34,000,000
Wisconsin.....................................  Fort McCoy.....................................      $23,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE 
              CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in 
the following table:

                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California....................................  Seal Beach.....................................      $21,740,000
Georgia.......................................  Benning........................................      $13,630,000
Pennsylvania..................................  Pittsburgh.....................................      $17,650,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air National Guard locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                               Air National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California....................................  Channel Islands Air National Guard Station.....       $8,000,000
Hawaii........................................  Joint Base Peal Harbor-Hickam..................      $17,000,000
Illinois......................................  General Wayne A. Downing Peoria International         $9,000,000
                                                 Airport.
Louisiana.....................................  Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base New             $15,000,000
                                                 Orleans.
New York......................................  Francis S. Gabreski Airport....................      $20,000,000
Pennsylvania..................................  Fort Indiantown Gap............................       $8,000,000
Puerto Rico...................................  Luis Munoz Marin International Airport.........      $50,000,000
Virginia......................................  Joint Base Langley-Eustis......................      $10,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air Force Reserve locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                                Air Force Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Indiana......................................  Grissom Air Reserve Base.......................      $21,500,000
Minnesota.....................................  St. Paul International Airport.................       $9,000,000
Mississippi...................................  Keesler Air Force Base.........................       $4,550,000
New York......................................  Niagara Falls International Airport............      $14,000,000
Texas.........................................  Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth       $3,100,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2018, for the costs of acquisition, 
architectural and engineering services, and construction of facilities 
for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor, under 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of 
acquisition of land for those facilities), as specified in the funding 
table in section 4601.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

SEC. 2611. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2016 PROJECT.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2603 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (division B of Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1164) for construction 
of a Reserve Training Center Complex at Dam Neck, Virginia, the 
Secretary of the Navy may construct the Reserve Training Center Complex 
at Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Story, Virginia.

SEC. 2612. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2018 PROJECT.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2601 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018 (division B of Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1834) for Fort 
Belvoir, Virginia, for additions and alterations to the National Guard 
Readiness Center, the Secretary of the Army may construct a new 
readiness center. If a new readiness center is constructed, no funds 
above the previously authorized $15,000,000 may be made available for 
such purpose.

SEC. 2613. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2019 
              PROJECT.

    (a) Project Authorization.--The Secretary of the Navy may carry out 
a military construction project to construct a 50,000 square foot 
reserve training center, 6,600 square foot combat vehicle maintenance 
and storage facility, 2,400 square foot vehicle wash rack, 1,600 square 
foot covered training area, road improvements, and associated 
supporting facilities, and may acquire approximately 8.5 acres of 
adjacent land and obtain necessary interest in land at Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, in the amount of $17,650,000.
    (b) Use of Unobligated Prior-year Navy Military Construction 
Reserve Funds.--The Secretary may use available, unobligated Navy 
military construction reserve funds for the project described in 
subsection (a).
    (c) Congressional Notification.--The Secretary of the Navy shall 
provide information in accordance with section 2851(c) of title 10, 
United States Code, regarding the project described in subsection (a). 
If it becomes necessary to exceed the estimated project cost, the 
Secretary shall utilize the authority provided by section 2853 of such 
title regarding authorized cost and scope of work variations.

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 2701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
              CLOSURE ACTIVITIES FUNDED THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              BASE CLOSURE ACCOUNT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2018, for base realignment and closure 
activities, including real property acquisition and military 
construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base 
Closure Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended by 
section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2140)), as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2702. PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING ADDITIONAL BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
              CLOSURE (BRAC) ROUND.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an additional 
Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.

       TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing 
                                Changes

SEC. 2801. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO OBTAIN ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING 
              SERVICES AND CONSTRUCTION DESIGN FOR DEFENSE LABORATORY 
              MODERNIZATION PILOT PROGRAM.

    Section 2803 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1169; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``subsection (d)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (e)'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``, site preparation, 
        and advance planning and design'' and inserting ``and site 
        preparation'';
            (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``subsection (c)(1)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (d)(1)'';
            (4) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f) as 
        subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g), respectively;
            (5) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c) Architectural and Engineering Services and Construction 
Design.--Using amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to the 
military departments for research, development, test, and evaluation, 
the Secretary of the military department concerned may obtain 
architectural and engineering services and carry out construction 
design in connection with a military construction project described in 
subsection (a). This authority is not subject to the condition in 
subsection (b).'';
            (6) in subsection (d), as redesignated by paragraph (4)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the 
                following: ``This requirement does not include 
                architectural and engineering services and construction 
                design under subsection (c).''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``other than 
                funds used pursuant to subsection (c)'' after 
                ``subsection (a)''; and
            (7) in subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (4), by 
        striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2025''.

SEC. 2802. MODIFICATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORITY FOR ACQUISITION, 
              CONSTRUCTION, OR FURNISHING OF TEST FACILITIES AND 
              EQUIPMENT.

    Section 2353(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting after the first sentence the following: 
        ``The acquisition or construction of these research, 
        developmental, or test facilities shall be subject to the cost 
        principles applicable to allowable contract expenses.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following: ``The acquisition 
        or construction of facilities under the authority of this 
        section shall not be governed by sections 2802, 2805, or 2811 
        of this title and their associated implementing regulations. 
        The Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military 
        departments shall promulgate regulations necessary to give full 
        force and effect to this section.''.

SEC. 2803. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY, LIMITED AUTHORITY TO USE OPERATION 
              AND MAINTENANCE FUNDS FOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS IN 
              CERTAIN AREAS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (h) of section 2808 of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (division 
B of Public Law 108-136; 117 Stat. 1723), as most recently amended by 
section 2804 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 115-91), is further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``December 31, 2018'' and 
        inserting ``December 31, 2019''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal year 2020''.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Authority.--Subsection (c)(1) of such 
section is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$100,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$50,000,000'';
            (2) by striking ``October 1, 2017'' and inserting ``October 
        1, 2018'';
            (3) by striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting 
        ``December 31, 2019''; and
            (4) by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2020''.

SEC. 2804. UNSPECIFIED MINOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS RELATED TO 
              REVITALIZATION AND RECAPITALIZATION OF DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL 
              BASE FACILITIES.

    Section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Defense Industrial Base Facility Revitalization.--(1) For the 
revitalization and recapitalization of Defense Industrial Base 
Facilities owned by the United States and under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary concerned, the Secretary concerned may obligate and expend--
            ``(A) from appropriations available to the Secretary 
        concerned for operation and maintenance, amounts necessary to 
        carry out an unspecified minor military construction project 
        costing not more than $6,000,000, notwithstanding subsection 
        (c); or
            ``(B) from appropriations available to the Secretary 
        concerned for military construction not otherwise authorized by 
        law or from funds authorized to be made available section 
        2363(a) of this title, amounts necessary to carry out an 
        unspecified minor military construction project costing not 
        more than $6,000,000.
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, an unspecified minor 
military construction project is a military construction project that 
(notwithstanding subsection (a)) has an approved cost equal to or less 
than $6,000,000.
    ``(3) If the Secretary concerned makes a decision to carry out an 
unspecified minor military construction project to which this 
subsection applies, the Secretary concerned shall notify the 
appropriate committees of Congress of that decision, of the 
justification for the project, and of the estimated cost of the 
project. The project may then be carried out only after the end of the 
14-day period beginning on the date the notification is received by the 
committees in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this 
title.
    ``(4) In this section, the term `defense industrial base facility' 
means any Department of Defense depot, arsenal, shipyard, or plant 
located within the United States.
    ``(5) The authority to carry out a project under this subsection 
expires on September 30, 2023.''.

SEC. 2805. CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT OF PROJECTS CARRIED OUT PURSUANT TO 
              LAWS OTHER THAN MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATION ACTS.

    Section 2802(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Secretary concerned shall--'' and all 
        that follows through ``comply with the congressional 
        notification requirement'' and inserting ``Secretary concerned 
        shall comply with the congressional notification requirement''; 
        and
            (2) by inserting ``and submit to the congressional defense 
        committees any materials required to be submitted to Congress 
        or any other congressional committees pursuant to the 
        congressional notification requirement'' after ``road project 
        will be carried out''.

          Subtitle B--Project Management and Oversight Reforms

SEC. 2811. UPDATES AND MODIFICATIONS TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FORM 
              1391, UNIFIED FACILITIES CRITERIA, AND MILITARY 
              INSTALLATION MASTER PLANS.

    (a) Flood Risk Disclosure for Military Construction.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall modify 
        Department of Defense Form 1391 to require, with respect to any 
        proposed major or minor military construction project requiring 
        congressional notification or approval--
                    (A) disclosure whether a proposed project will be 
                sited within or partially within a 100-year floodplain, 
                according to the most recent available Federal 
                Emergency Management Agency flood hazard data; and
                    (B) if the proposed project will be sited within or 
                partially within a 100-year floodplain, the specific 
                risk mitigation plan.
            (2) Delineation of floodplain.--To the extent that Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency flood hazard data are not available 
        for a proposed major or minor military construction site, the 
        Secretary concerned shall establish a process for delineating 
        the 100-year floodplain using risk analysis that is consistent 
        with the standards used to inform Federal flood risk 
        assessments.
            (3) Reporting requirements.--For proposed projects that are 
        to be sited within or partially within a 100-year floodplain, 
        the Secretary concerned shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report with the following:
                    (A) An assessment of flood vulnerability for the 
                proposed project.
                    (B) Any information concerning alternative 
                construction sites that were considered, and an 
                explanation of why those sites do not satisfy mission 
                requirements.
                    (C) A description of planned flood mitigation 
                measures.
            (4) Minimum flood mitigation requirements.--When mitigating 
        the flood risk of a major or minor military construction 
        project within or partially within the 100-year floodplain, the 
        Secretary concerned shall require any mitigation plan to assume 
        an additional--
                    (A) 2 feet above the base flood elevation for non-
                mission critical buildings, as determined by the 
                Secretary; and
                    (B) 3 feet above the base flood elevation for 
                mission-critical buildings, as determined by the 
                Secretary.
    (b) Disclosure Requirements for Department of Defense Form 1391.--
Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Defense shall amend Department of Defense Form 1391 to 
require, for each requested military construction project--
            (1) disclosure whether the project was included in the 
        prior year's future-years defense program submitted to Congress 
        pursuant to section 221 of title 10, United States Code; and
            (2) inclusion of an energy study or life cycle analysis.
    (c) Incorporation of Changing Environmental Condition Projections 
in Military Construction Designs and Modifications.--Not later than 30 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall amend section 3-5.6.2.3 of United Facilities Criteria 
(UFC) 2-100-01 and UFC 2-100-02 (or any similar successor regulations) 
to provide that in order to anticipate changing environmental 
conditions during the design life of existing or planned new facilities 
and infrastructure, projections from reliable and authorized sources 
such as the Census Bureau (for population projections), the National 
Academies of Sciences (for land use change projections and climate 
projections), the U.S. Geological Survey (for land use change 
projections), and the U.S. Global Change Research Office and National 
Climate Assessment (for climate projections) shall be considered and 
incorporated into military construction designs and modifications.
    (d) Inclusion of Consideration of Energy and Climate Resiliency 
Efforts in Master Plans for Major Military Installations.--Section 2864 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
            ``(E) energy and climate resiliency efforts.''; and
            (2) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(3) The term `energy and climate resiliency' means 
        anticipation, preparation for, and adaptation to utility 
        disruptions and changing environmental conditions and the 
        ability to withstand, respond to, and recover rapidly from 
        utility disruptions while ensuring the sustainment of mission-
        critical operations.''.
    (e) Definition of Military Installation Resilience.--Section 101(e) 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(8) Military installation resilience.--The term `military 
        installation resilience' means the capability of a military 
        installation to avoid, prepare for, minimize the effect of, 
        adapt to, and recover from extreme weather events, or from 
        anticipated or unanticipated changes in environmental 
        conditions, that do, or have the potential to, adversely affect 
        the military installation or essential transportation, 
        logistical, or other necessary resources outside of the 
        military installation that are necessary in order to maintain, 
        improve, or rapidly reestablish installation mission assurance 
        and mission-essential functions.''.
    (f) Adjustment and Diversification Assistance for Responding to 
Threats to the Resilience of a Military Installation.--Section 
2391(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``, or (E) by the closure'' and inserting 
        ``, (E) by threats to military installation resilience, or (F) 
        by the closure'';
            (2) by striking ``(A), (B), (C), or (E)'' and inserting 
        ``(A), (B), (C), or (F)''; and
            (3) by striking ``action described in clause (D), if the 
        Secretary determines that the encroachment of the civilian 
        community'' and inserting ``action described in clause (D) or 
        (E), if the Secretary determines that either the encroachment 
        of the civilian community or threats to military installation 
        resilience''.

SEC. 2812. WORK IN PROCESS CURVE CHARTS AND OUTLAY TABLES FOR MILITARY 
              CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

    (a) Required Submissions.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter III of chapter 169 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2864 
        the following new section:
``Sec. 2865. Work in Process Curve charts and outlay tables required 
              for military construction projects
    ``Along with the budget for each fiscal year submitted by the 
President pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, 
the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military 
departments shall include for any military construction project over 
$35,000,000, as an addendum to be included within the same document as 
the 1391s for the Military Construction Program budget documentation, a 
Project Spending Plan that includes--
            ``(1) a Work in Process Curve chart to identify funding, 
        obligations, and outlay figures; and
            ``(2) a monthly outlay table for funding, obligations, and 
        outlay figures.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such subchapter is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 2864 the following new item:

``2865. Work in Process Curve charts and outlay tables required for 
                            military construction projects.''.
    (b) Department of Defense Guidance.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense 
(Comptroller), update Department of Defense Financial Management 
Regulation 7000.14-R, and any other appropriate instructions and 
guidance, to ensure that the Department of Defense takes appropriate 
actions to comply with section 2865 of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by this section.

                      Subtitle C--Land Conveyances

SEC. 2821. LAND EXCHANGE, AIR FORCE PLANT 44, TUCSON, ARIZONA.

    (a) Land Conveyance and Restoration of Real Property Improvements 
Authorized.--In connection with a project planned by the Tuscon Airport 
Authority (in this section referred to as ``TAA'') to relocate and 
extend a parallel runway and make other airfield safety enhancements at 
the Tucson International Airport, the Secretary of the Air Force (in 
this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') may--
            (1) convey to TAA all right, title, and interest of the 
        United States in and to all or any part of a parcel of real 
        property, including any improvements thereon, consisting of 
        approximately 58 acres on Air Force Plant 44, Arizona, and 
        located adjacent to Tucson International Airport;
            (2) agree to terminate all or a portion of any deed 
        restrictions made for the benefit of the United States that 
        limit construction on Tucson International Airport within 750 
        feet of the Airport's southwest property boundary with Air 
        Force Plant 44; and
            (3) using cash or in-kind consideration as provided in 
        subsection (b)--
                    (A) construct new explosives storage facilities to 
                replace the explosives storage facilities located on 
                the land described in paragraph (1) and explosives 
                storage facilities located on Air Force Plant 44 within 
                the end-of-runway clear zone associated with the TAA 
                airfield enhancement project; and
                    (B) construct new fencing as necessary to 
                accommodate the changes in the boundary of Air Force 
                Plant 44.
    (b) Consideration.--As consideration for the land conveyance, deed 
restriction termination, replacement of real property improvements, and 
installation of fencing authorized under subsection (a), the following 
consideration must be received by the United States before the 
Secretary may make any conveyance or termination of real property 
interests of the United States as described in subsection (a):
            (1) All right, title, and interest of the owner or owners 
        thereof to the parcels of real property consisting of 
        approximately 160 acres directly adjacent to the south boundary 
        of Air Force Plant 44.
            (2) The cost to the Secretary, in accordance with current 
        design standards, of--
                    (A) replacing the real property structures on Air 
                Force Plant 44 made unusable due to the land transfers 
                and termination of deed restrictions, with structures 
                of at least equivalent capacity and functionality; and
                    (B) installing the necessary boundary fencing due 
                to the changes in the boundary of Air Force Plant 44.
    (c) Direct Payment of Consideration to Government Contractors.--The 
Secretary may require that any cash consideration to be received under 
this section be paid, directly or through the Air Force design and 
construction agent, to the contractors performing design or 
construction of the real property improvements described in subsection 
(a)(3).
    (d) Payment of Costs of Conveyances.--
            (1) Payment required.--The Secretary may require TAA to 
        cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary to carry out the 
        land exchange and other transactions authorized under this 
        section, or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs, 
        including survey costs, appraisal costs, costs related to 
        environmental documentation, and other administrative costs 
        related to the conveyances. If amounts are collected from TAA 
        in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the 
        amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the 
        Secretary to carry out such transactions, the Secretary shall 
        refund the excess amount to TAA.
            (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
        reimbursements under paragraph (1) shall be used in accordance 
        with section 2695(c) of title 10, United States Code.
    (e) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be exchanged under this section 
shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the land 
exchange and other transactions under this section as the Secretary 
considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States. 
Without limiting the foregoing, the Secretary may establish a deed 
restriction on any part of the 58 acres described in subsection (a)(1) 
to accommodate existing Quantity Distance arcs.

SEC. 2822. LAND CONVEYANCE, EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE, FLORIDA.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
convey, without consideration, to the Air Force Enlisted Village, a 
nonprofit corporation (in this section referred to as the ``Village''), 
all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel 
of real property, including improvements thereon, consisting of 
approximately 80 acres located adjacent to Eglin Air Force Base, 
Florida, for the purpose of independent-living and assisted-living 
apartments for veterans. The conveyance under this subsection is 
subject to valid existing rights.
    (b) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary determines at any time 
that the real property conveyed under subsection (a) is not being used 
in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance specified in 
subsection (a), all right, title, and interest in and to such real 
property, including any improvements thereto, shall, at the option of 
the Secretary, revert to and become the property of the United States, 
and the United States shall have the right of immediate entry onto such 
real property. A determination by the Secretary under this subsection 
shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
    (c) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
            (1) Payment required.--The Secretary may require the 
        Village to cover all costs (except costs for environmental 
        remediation of the property) to be incurred by the Secretary, 
        or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the 
        Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under this section, 
        including survey costs, costs for environmental documentation, 
        and any other administrative costs related to the conveyance. 
        If amounts are collected from the Village in advance of the 
        Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected 
        exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry 
        out the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess 
        amount to the Village.
            (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
        paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the 
        Secretary to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a) 
        shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to cover 
        the costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the 
        conveyance, or to an appropriate fund or account currently 
        available to the Secretary for the purposes for which the costs 
        were paid. Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in 
        such fund or account and shall be available for the same 
        purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, 
        as amounts in such fund or account.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall 
be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 2831. COMMEMORATION OF FREEDMAN'S VILLAGE.

    (a) Freedman's Village Gate.--The Secretary of the Army shall, as 
part of the southern expansion of Arlington National Cemetery, name the 
newly constructed gate located at the intersection of Hobson Drive and 
Southgate Road, ``Freedman's Village Gate''.
    (b) Permanent Easement.--The Secretary of the Army is directed to 
grant to Arlington County a permanent easement of no less than 0.1 
acres of land within the right-of-way of Southgate Road to the south 
and west of Hobson Drive and west of the planned joint base access road 
that is also continuous with Foxcroft Heights Park for the purpose of 
commemorating Freedman's Village.
    (c) Relocation of Commemoration in Event Location Is Used for 
Burial Purposes.--In the event Arlington National Cemetery subsequently 
acquires the property used for the commemoration described under 
subsection (b) for burial purposes, the Army shall relocate any 
commemoration of Freedman's Village to an appropriate location.
    (d) Reimbursement.--The Secretary of Defense may accept 
reimbursement from Arlington County for any costs associated with 
commemorating Freedman's Village.

SEC. 2832. STRATEGIC PLAN TO IMPROVE CAPABILITIES OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE TRAINING RANGES AND INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) Plan Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop and 
implement a comprehensive strategic plan to identify and address 
deficits in the capabilities of Department of Defense training ranges 
to support current and anticipated readiness requirements to execute 
the National Defense Strategy (NDS).
    (b) Evaluation.--As part of the preparation of the strategic plan, 
the Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of the following:
            (1) The adequacy of current training range resources to 
        include the ability to train against near-peer or peer threats 
        in a realistic 5th Generation environment.
            (2) The adequacy of current training enablers to meet 
        current and anticipated demands of the Armed Forces.
    (c) Elements.--The strategic plan shall include the following:
            (1) Proposals to enhance the capabilities of training 
        ranges to address any limitations or constraints on current 
        Department resources, including any climatically induced 
        impacts or shortfalls.
            (2) Goals and milestones for tracking actions under the 
        plan and measuring progress in carrying out such actions.
            (3) Projected funding requirements for implementing actions 
        under the plan.
    (d) Development and Implementation.--The Under Secretary of Defense 
for Acquisition and Sustainment, as the principal staff assistant to 
the Secretary on installation management, shall have lead 
responsibility for developing and overseeing implementation of the 
strategic plan and for coordination of the discharge of the plan by 
components of the Department.
    (e) Report on Implementation.--Not later than April 1, 2020, the 
Secretary shall, through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment, submit to Congress a report on the progress made in 
implementing this section, including the following:
            (1) A description of the strategic plan.
            (2) A description of the results of the evaluation 
        conducted under subsection (b).
            (3) Such recommendations as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate with respect to improvements of the capabilities of 
        training ranges and enablers.
    (f) Progress Reports.--Not later than April 1, 2019, and annually 
thereafter for 3 years, the Secretary shall, through the Under 
Secretary, submit to Congress a report setting forth the following:
            (1) A description of the progress made during the preceding 
        fiscal year in implementing the strategic plan.
            (2) A description of any additional actions taken, or to be 
        taken, to address limitations and constraints on training 
        ranges and enablers.
            (3) Assessments of individual training ranges addressing 
        the evaluation conducted under subsection (b).
    (g) Additional Report Element.--Each report under subsections (e) 
and (f) shall also include a list of significant modifications to 
training range inventory, such as range closures or expansions, during 
the preceding fiscal year, including any limitations or impacts due to 
climatic conditions.

SEC. 2833. NATIVE AMERICAN INDIAN LANDS ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 160 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2712. Native American lands environmental mitigation program
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense may establish and 
carry out a program to mitigate the environmental effects of Department 
of Defense actions on Indian lands and culturally connected locations.
    ``(b) Program Activities.--The activities that may be carried out 
under the program established under subsection (a) are the following:
            ``(1) Identification, investigation, and documentation of 
        suspected environmental effects attributable to past Department 
        of Defense actions.
            ``(2) Development of mitigation options for such 
        environmental effects, including development of cost-to-
        complete estimates and a system for prioritizing mitigation 
        actions.
            ``(3) Direct mitigation actions that the Secretary 
        determines are necessary and appropriate to mitigate the 
        adverse environmental effects of past Department of Defense 
        actions.
            ``(4) Demolition and removal of unsafe buildings and 
        structures used by, under the jurisdiction of, or formerly used 
        by or under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense.
            ``(5) Training, technical assistance, and administrative 
        support to facilitate the meaningful participation of Indian 
        tribes in mitigation actions under the program.
            ``(6) Development and execution of a policy governing 
        consultation with Indian tribes that have been or may be 
        affected by Department of Defense actions, including training 
        Department of Defense personnel to ensure compliance with the 
        policy.
    ``(c) Cooperative Agreements.--(1) In carrying out the program 
established under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may enter 
into a cooperative agreement with an Indian tribe or an instrumentality 
of tribal government.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31, a cooperative 
agreement under this section may be used to acquire property or 
services for the direct benefit of the United States Government.
    ``(3) Any cooperative agreement under this section for the 
procurement of severable services may begin in one fiscal year and end 
in another fiscal year provided the total period of performance does 
not exceed five calendar years.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `Indian land' includes--
                    ``(A) any land located within the boundaries and a 
                part of an Indian reservation, pueblo, or rancheria;
                    ``(B) any land that has been allotted to an 
                individual Indian, but has not been conveyed to such 
                Indian with full power of alienation;
                    ``(C) Alaska Native village and regional 
                corporation lands; and
                    ``(D) lands and waters upon which any federally 
                recognized Indian tribe has rights reserved by treaty, 
                act of Congress, or action by the President.
            ``(2) The term `Indian tribe' means any Indian tribe, band, 
        nation, or other organized group or community, including any 
        Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as 
        defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims 
        Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), which is recognized as 
        eligible for the special programs and services provided by the 
        United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
            ``(3) The term `culturally connected location' means a 
        location or place that has demonstrable significance to Indians 
        or Alaska Natives based on its association with the traditional 
        beliefs, customs, and practices of a living community, 
        including locations or places where religious, ceremonial, 
        subsistence, medicinal, economic, or other lifeways practices 
        have historically taken place.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2711 the following new item:

``2712. Native American lands environmental mitigation program.''.

SEC. 2834. DEFENSE COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE PILOT PROGRAM.

    Section 2391 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(d) Defense Community Infrastructure Pilot Program.--(1) The 
Secretary of Defense may make grants, conclude cooperative agreements, 
and supplement funds available under Federal programs administered by 
agencies other than the Department of Defense to assist State and local 
governments to address deficiencies in community infrastructure 
supportive of a military installation, if the Secretary determines that 
such assistance will enhance the military value, resilience, or 
military family quality of life at such military installation.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall establish criteria for the selection of 
community infrastructure projects to receive assistance under paragraph 
(1). The criteria shall include a requirement that the State or local 
government agree to contribute not less than 30 percent of the funding 
for the community infrastructure project, unless the community 
infrastructure project is located in a rural area, or for reasons 
related to national security, in which case the Secretary may waive the 
requirement for a State or local government contribution.
    ``(3) Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for 
assistance under paragraph (1) may remain available until expended.
    ``(4) The authority under this subsection shall expire on September 
30, 2023.''; and
            (3) in subsection (e), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by 
        adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(4) The term `community infrastructure' means any 
        transportation project; school, hospital, police, fire, 
        emergency response, or other community support facility; or 
        water, waste-water, telecommunications, electric, gas, or other 
        utility infrastructure project that is located off of a 
        military installation and owned by a State or local government.
            ``(5) The term `rural area' means a city, town, or 
        unincorporated area that has a population of not more than 
        20,000 inhabitants.''.

SEC. 2835. REPRESENTATION OF INSTALLATION INTERESTS IN NEGOTIATIONS AND 
              PROCEEDINGS WITH CARRIERS AND OTHER PUBLIC UTILITIES.

    Section 501(c) of title 40, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;
            (2) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``For transportation''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) Prior to representing any installation of the Department of 
Defense in any proceeding under this subsection, the Administrator or 
any persons or entities acting on behalf of the Administrator shall--
            ``(A) notify the senior mission commander of the 
        installation; and
            ``(B) solicit and represent the interests of the 
        installation as determined by the installation's senior mission 
        commander.''.

SEC. 2836. WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE LAND ENHANCEMENTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``White 
        Sands National Park Proposed Boundary Revision & Transfer of 
        Lands Between National Park Service & Department of the Army'', 
        numbered 142/136,271, and dated February 14, 2017.
            (2) Military munitions.--The term ``military munitions'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 101(e) of title 10, 
        United States Code.
            (3) Missile range.--The term ``missile range'' means the 
        White Sands Missile Range, New Mexico, administered by the 
        Secretary of the Army.
            (4) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the White Sands 
        National Monument, New Mexico, established by Presidential 
        Proclamation No. 2025 (54 U.S.C. 320301 note), dated January 
        18, 1933, and administered by the Secretary.
            (5) Munitions debris.--The term ``munitions debris'' has 
        the meaning given the term in volume 8 of the Department of 
        Defense Manual Number 6055.09-M entitled ``DoD Ammunitions and 
        Explosives Safety Standards'' and dated February 29, 2008 (as 
        in effect on the date of enactment of this Act).
            (6) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the White Sands National 
        Park established by subsection (b)(2)(A).
            (7) Public land order.--The term ``Public Land Order'' 
        means Public Land Order 833, dated May 21, 1952 (17 Fed. Reg. 
        4822).
            (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (9) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New 
        Mexico.
    (b) White Sands National Park.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) White Sands National Monument was established 
                on January 18, 1933, by President Herbert Hoover under 
                chapter 3203 of title 54, United States Code (commonly 
                known as the ``Antiquities Act of 1906'');
                    (B) President Hoover proclaimed that the Monument 
                was established ``for the preservation of the white 
                sands and additional features of scenic, scientific, 
                and educational interest'';
                    (C) the Monument was expanded by Presidents 
                Roosevelt, Eisenhower, Carter, and Clinton in 1934, 
                1942, 1953, 1978, and 1996, respectively;
                    (D) the Monument contains a substantially more 
                diverse set of nationally significant historical, 
                archaeological, scientific, and natural resources than 
                were known of at the time the Monument was established, 
                including a number of recent discoveries;
                    (E) the Monument is recognized as a major unit of 
                the National Park System with extraordinary values 
                enjoyed by more visitors each year since 1995 than any 
                other unit in the State;
                    (F) the Monument contributes significantly to the 
                local economy by attracting tourists; and
                    (G) designation of the Monument as a national park 
                would increase public recognition of the diverse array 
                of nationally significant resources at the Monument and 
                visitation to the unit.
            (2) Establishment of white sands national park.--
                    (A) Establishment.--To protect, preserve, and 
                restore its scenic, scientific, educational, natural, 
                geological, historical, cultural, archaeological, 
                paleontological, hydrological, fish, wildlife, and 
                recreational values and to enhance visitor experiences, 
                there is established in the State the White Sands 
                National Park as a unit of the National Park System.
                    (B) Abolishment of white sands national monument.--
                            (i) Abolishment.--Due to the establishment 
                        of the Park, the Monument is abolished.
                            (ii) Incorporation.--The land and interests 
                        in land that comprise the Monument are 
                        incorporated in, and shall be considered to be 
                        part of, the Park.
                    (C) References.--Any reference in a law, map, 
                regulation, document, paper, or other record of the 
                United States to the ``White Sands National Monument'' 
                shall be considered to be a reference to the ``White 
                Sands National Park''.
                    (D) Availability of funds.--Any funds available for 
                the Monument shall be available for the Park.
                    (E) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer 
                the Park in accordance with--
                            (i) this subsection; and
                            (ii) the laws generally applicable to units 
                        of the National Park System, including section 
                        100101(a), chapter 1003, sections 100751(a), 
                        100752, 100753, and 102101, and chapter 3201 of 
                        title 54, United States Code.
                    (F) World heritage list nomination.--
                            (i) County concurrence.--The Secretary 
                        shall not submit a nomination for the Park to 
                        be included on the World Heritage List of the 
                        United Nations Educational, Scientific and 
                        Cultural Organization unless each county in 
                        which the Park is located concurs in the 
                        nomination.
                            (ii) Army notification.--Before submitting 
                        a nomination for the Park to be included on the 
                        World Heritage List of the United Nations 
                        Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
                        Organization, the Secretary shall notify the 
                        Secretary of the Army of the intent of the 
                        Secretary to nominate the Park.
                    (G) Effect.--Nothing in this paragraph affects--
                            (i) valid existing rights (including water 
                        rights);
                            (ii) permits or contracts issued by the 
                        Monument;
                            (iii) existing agreements, including 
                        agreements with the Department of Defense;
                            (iv) the jurisdiction of the Department of 
                        Defense regarding the restricted airspace above 
                        the Park; or
                            (v) the airshed classification of the Park 
                        under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et 
                        seq.).
    (c) Modification of Boundaries of White Sands National Park and 
White Sands Missile Range.--
            (1) Transfers of administrative jurisdiction.--
                    (A) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction to the 
                secretary.--
                            (i) In general.--Administrative 
                        jurisdiction over the land described in clause 
                        (ii) is transferred from the Secretary of the 
                        Army to the Secretary.
                            (ii) Description of land.--The land 
                        referred to in clause (i) is--
                                    (I) the approximately 2,826 acres 
                                of land identified as ``To NPS, lands 
                                inside current boundary'' on the Map; 
                                and
                                    (II) the approximately 5,766 acres 
                                of land identified as ``To NPS, new 
                                additions'' on the Map.
                    (B) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction to the 
                secretary of the army.--
                            (i) In general.--Administrative 
                        jurisdiction over the land described in clause 
                        (ii) is transferred from the Secretary to the 
                        Secretary of the Army.
                            (ii) Description of land.--The land 
                        referred to in clause (i) is the approximately 
                        3,737 acres of land identified as ``To DOA'' on 
                        the Map.
            (2) Boundary modifications.--
                    (A) Park.--
                            (i) In general.--The boundary of the Park 
                        is revised to reflect the boundary depicted on 
                        the Map.
                            (ii) Map.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Secretary, in 
                                coordination with the Secretary of the 
                                Army, shall prepare and keep on file 
                                for public inspection in the 
                                appropriate office of the Secretary a 
                                map and a legal description of the 
                                revised boundary of the Park.
                                    (II) Effect.--The map and legal 
                                description under subclause (I) shall 
                                have the same force and effect as if 
                                included in this section, except that 
                                the Secretary may correct clerical and 
                                typographical errors in the map and 
                                legal description.
                            (iii) Boundary survey.--As soon as 
                        practicable after the date of the establishment 
                        of the Park and subject to the availability of 
                        funds, the Secretary shall complete an official 
                        boundary survey of the Park.
                    (B) Missile range.--
                            (i) In general.--The boundary of the 
                        missile range and the Public Land Order are 
                        modified to exclude the land transferred to the 
                        Secretary under paragraph (1)(A) and to include 
                        the land transferred to the Secretary of the 
                        Army under paragraph (1)(B).
                            (ii) Map.--The Secretary shall prepare a 
                        map and legal description depicting the revised 
                        boundary of the missile range.
                    (C) Conforming amendment.--Section 2854 of Public 
                Law 104-201 (54 U.S.C. 320301 note) is repealed.
            (3) Administration.--
                    (A) Park.--The Secretary shall administer the land 
                transferred under paragraph (1)(A) in accordance with 
                laws (including regulations) applicable to the Park.
                    (B) Missile range.--Subject to subparagraph (C), 
                the Secretary of the Army shall administer the land 
                transferred to the Secretary of the Army under 
                paragraph (1)(B) as part of the missile range.
                    (C) Infrastructure; resource management.--
                            (i) Range road 7.--
                                    (I) Infrastructure management.--To 
                                the maximum extent practicable, in 
                                planning, constructing, and managing 
                                infrastructure on the land described in 
                                subclause (III), the Secretary of the 
                                Army shall apply low-impact development 
                                techniques and strategies to prevent 
                                impacts within the missile range and 
                                the Park from stormwater runoff from 
                                the land described in that subclause.
                                    (II) Resource management.--The 
                                Secretary of the Army shall--
                                            (aa) manage the land 
                                        described in subclause (III) in 
                                        a manner consistent with the 
                                        protection of natural and 
                                        cultural resources within the 
                                        missile range and the Park and 
                                        in accordance with section 
                                        101(a)(1)(B) of the Sikes Act 
                                        (16 U.S.C. 670a(a)(1)(B)), 
                                        division A of subtitle III of 
                                        title 54, United States Code, 
                                        and the Native American Graves 
                                        Protection and Repatriation Act 
                                        (25 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.); and
                                            (bb) include the land 
                                        described in subclause (III) in 
                                        the integrated natural and 
                                        cultural resource management 
                                        plan for the missile range.
                                    (III) Description of land.--The 
                                land referred to in subclauses (I) and 
                                (II) is the land that is transferred to 
                                the administrative jurisdiction of the 
                                Secretary of the Army under paragraph 
                                (1)(B) and located in the area east of 
                                Range Road 7 in--
                                            (aa) T. 17 S., R. 5 E., 
                                        sec. 31;
                                            (bb) T. 18 S., R. 5 E.; and
                                            (cc) T. 19 S., R. 5 E., 
                                        sec. 5.
                            (ii) Fence.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Secretary of 
                                the Army shall continue to allow the 
                                Secretary to maintain the fence shown 
                                on the Map until such time as the 
                                Secretary determines that the fence is 
                                unnecessary for the management of the 
                                Park.
                                    (II) Removal.--If the Secretary 
                                determines that the fence is 
                                unnecessary for the management of the 
                                Park under subclause (I), the Secretary 
                                shall promptly remove the fence at the 
                                expense of the Department of the 
                                Interior.
                    (D) Research.--The Secretary of the Army and the 
                Secretary may enter into an agreement to allow the 
                Secretary to conduct certain research in the area 
                identified as ``Cooperative Use Research Area'' on the 
                Map.
                    (E) Military munitions and munitions debris.--
                            (i) Response action.--With respect to any 
                        Federal liability, the Secretary of the Army 
                        shall remain responsible for any response 
                        action addressing military munitions or 
                        munitions debris on the land transferred under 
                        paragraph (1)(A) to the same extent as on the 
                        day before the date of enactment of this Act.
                            (ii) Investigation of military munitions 
                        and munitions debris.--
                                    (I) In general.--The Secretary may 
                                request that the Secretary of the Army 
                                conduct 1 or more investigations of 
                                military munitions or munitions debris 
                                on any land transferred under paragraph 
                                (1)(A).
                                    (II) Access.--The Secretary shall 
                                give access to the Secretary of the 
                                Army to the land covered by a request 
                                under subclause (I) for the purposes of 
                                conducting the 1 or more investigations 
                                under that subclause.
                                    (III) Limitation.--An investigation 
                                conducted under this clause shall be 
                                subject to available appropriations.
                            (iii) Applicable law.--Any activities 
                        undertaken under this subparagraph shall be 
                        carried out in accordance with--
                                    (I) the Comprehensive Environmental 
                                Response, Compensation, and Liability 
                                Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.);
                                    (II) the purposes for which the 
                                Park was established; and
                                    (III) any other applicable law.

SEC. 2837. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER FUNDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF INDIAN RIVER 
              BRIDGE.

    Notwithstanding the limitation in section 2215 of title 10, United 
States Code, the Secretary of Defense may transfer to the Administrator 
of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration up to 50 percent 
of the shared costs of constructing the Indian River Bridge. The 
authority under this section shall expire on October 1, 2022.

   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2901. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction projects for the installation outside the 
United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bulgaria                                          Nevo Selo FOS................................       $5,200,000
Poland                                            Drawsko Pomorski Training Area...............      $17,000,000
                                                  Powidz Air Base..............................      $87,000,000
                                                  Zagan Training Area..........................      $40,400,000
Romania                                           Mihail Kogalniceanu FOS......................      $21,651,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2902. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction projects for the installations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                         Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Greece........................................  Souda Bay......................................      $47,850,000
Italy.........................................  Sigonella......................................      $66,050,000
Spain.........................................  Rota...........................................      $21,590,000
United Kingdom................................  Lossiemouth....................................      $79,130,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2903. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry 
out the military construction projects for the installations outside 
the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                         Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.......................................  Ramstein Air Base..............................     $119,000,000
Norway........................................  Rygge..........................................      $13,800,000
Slovakia......................................  Malacky........................................      $59,000,000
United Kingdom................................  RAF Fairford...................................     $106,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2904. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction projects for the installations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                         Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Estonia.......................................  Unspecified....................................      $15,700,000
Qatar.........................................  Al Udeid.......................................      $60,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2905. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2018, for the military construction 
projects outside the United States authorized by this title as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

SEC. 3101. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2019 for 
the activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration in 
carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 
4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out new plant projects for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration as follows:
            Project 19-D-670, 138kV Power Transmission System 
        Replacement, Nevada National Security Site, Nevada, $6,000,000.
            Project 19-D-660, Lithium Production Capability, Y-12 
        National Security Complex, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, $19,000,000.
            Project 19-D-930, KS Overhead Piping, Kesselring Site, West 
        Milton, New York, $10,994,000.

SEC. 3102. DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2019 for defense environmental cleanup 
activities in carrying out programs as specified in the funding table 
in section 4701.

SEC. 3103. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2019 for other defense activities in carrying 
out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.

SEC. 3104. NUCLEAR ENERGY.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2019 for nuclear energy as specified in the 
funding table in section 4701.

   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 3111. CLARIFICATION OF ROLES AND AUTHORITIES OF NATIONAL NUCLEAR 
              SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Amendments to Department of Energy Organization Act.--
            (1) Under secretary for nuclear security.--Section 
        202(c)(3) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
        U.S.C. 7132(c)(3)) is amended by striking ``Act.'' and all that 
        follows through ``may be delegated'' and inserting the 
        following: ``Act (50 U.S.C. 2402). In carrying out the 
        functions of the Administrator, the Under Secretary shall be 
        subject to the authority of the Secretary in accordance with 
        section 3219 of that Act (50 U.S.C. 2409). Such authority may 
        be delegated''.
            (2) Establishment of policy.--Section 213 of the Department 
        of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7144) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``, acting 
                through the Under Secretary for Nuclear Security,'' 
                after ``The Secretary'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by striking ``programs and activities 
                        of the Administration'' and inserting 
                        ``regulations, policies, and activities of the 
                        Administration with respect to health and 
                        safety'' ; and
                            (ii) by striking ``those programs and 
                        activities'' and inserting ``those regulations, 
                        policies, and activities''; and
                    (C) by striking subsection (c).
    (b) Amendments to National Nuclear Security Administration Act.--
            (1) Administrator for nuclear security.--Section 3212 of 
        the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 
        2402) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
                        by striking ``and activities'' and inserting 
                        ``, policies, regulations, and rules''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (9), by striking the end 
                        period and inserting ``, subject to the 
                        policies of the Department of Energy.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) by striking ``may'' and inserting 
                        ``shall''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``, unless disapproved by 
                        the Secretary of Energy'' and inserting ``to 
                        carry out the mission and functions of the 
                        Administration, except as provided by section 
                        3219''.
            (2) General counsel.--Section 3217 of the National Nuclear 
        Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2407) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``There is'' and inserting the 
                following:
    ``(a) In General.--There is'';
                    (B) by striking the end period and inserting ``and 
                shall report to the Administrator.''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(b) Avoidance of Coordination and Duplication.--The General 
Counsel shall be independent from and may not duplicate the efforts of 
the General Counsel of the Department of Energy appointed under section 
202(e) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7132(e)).''.
            (3) Staff.--Section 3218 of the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2408) is amended by adding at the 
        end the following new subsections:
    ``(c) Reporting.--The staff of the Administration shall report to 
the Administrator through the appropriate structures of the 
Administration.
    ``(d) Avoidance of Coordination and Duplication.--The staff of the 
Administration performing functions specified in subsection (b) shall 
be independent from and may not duplicate the efforts of staff of 
elements of the Department of Energy other than the Administration that 
perform functions similar to the functions specified in subsection (b).
    ``(e) Applicability of Prohibition on Dual Office Holding.--The 
prohibition under section 3220(d) shall apply to staff of the 
Administration performing functions specified in subsection (b).''.
            (4) Authority of secretary.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 3219 of the National 
                Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2409) is 
                amended--
                            (i) in the section heading, by striking 
                        ``to modify organization of'' and inserting 
                        ``with respect to'';
                            (ii) by striking ``Notwithstanding'' and 
                        inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary of Energy, acting through the 
Administrator, shall be responsible for setting broad priorities for 
the Administration.
    ``(2) The Secretary may disapprove any action, policy, regulation, 
or rule of the Administrator if--
            ``(A) the Secretary submits to the congressional defense 
        committees justification for such disapproval; and
            ``(B) a period of 15 days has elapsed following the date on 
        which such justification was submitted.
    ``(3) Except as provided by this section, the Administrator shall 
have complete authority to establish and conduct oversight of policies, 
activities, and procedures of the Administration without direction or 
oversight by the Secretary.
    ``(4) The authority of the Secretary under paragraphs (1) and (2) 
may be delegated only to the Deputy Secretary of Energy, without 
further redelegation.
    ``(b) Organization of Administration.--Notwithstanding''; and
                            (iii) in subsection (b), as designated by 
                        clause (ii), by striking ``subsection (b) or 
                        (c) of''.
                    (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for 
                the National Nuclear Security Administration Act is 
                amended by striking the item relating to section 3219 
                and inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 3219. Scope of authority of Secretary of Energy with respect to 
                            Administration.''.
            (5) Status of personnel.--Section 3220 of the National 
        Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2410) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking subparagraph (A); 
                                and
                                    (II) by redesignating subparagraphs 
                                (B) and (C) as subparagraphs (A) and 
                                (B), respectively; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking the end 
                        period and inserting ``, except as provided by 
                        section 3219.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking the end period 
                and inserting ``and except as provided by section 
                3219.''.
            (6) Office of defense nuclear security.--Section 3232 of 
        the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 
        2422) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Secretary of 
                Energy'' and all that follows and inserting 
                ``Administrator.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                        ``Secretary and''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) by striking ``Secretary'' and 
                                inserting ``Secretary of Energy''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``Department'' and 
                                inserting ``Department of Energy''.
            (7) Counterintelligence programs.--Section 3233 of the 
        National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2423) 
        is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``, in 
                coordination with the Administrator,'' after 
                ``Secretary of Energy''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by inserting ``, in 
                coordination with the Administrator,'' after 
                ``Secretary of Energy''.
            (8) Authorized personnel levels.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 3241A of the National 
                Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2441a) 
                is amended--
                            (i) in the section heading, by striking 
                        ``authorized'' and inserting ``annual report 
                        on'';
                            (ii) by amending subsection (a) to read as 
                        follows:
    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator shall include in the budget 
justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the budget 
of the Administration for each fiscal year (as submitted with the 
budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code) a report containing the following information as of the 
date of the report:
            ``(1) The number of full-time equivalent employees of the 
        Office of the Administrator.
            ``(2) The number of service support contracts of the 
        Administration and whether such contracts are funded using 
        program or program direction funds.
            ``(3) The number of full-time equivalent contractor 
        employees working under each contract identified under 
        paragraph (2).
            ``(4) The number of full-time equivalent contractor 
        employees described in paragraph (3) that have been employed 
        under such a contract for a period greater than two years.
            ``(5) With respect to each contract identified under 
        paragraph (2)--
                    ``(A) the cost of the contract; and
                    ``(B) identification of the program or program 
                direction accounts that support the contract.'';
                            (iii) by striking subsection (c);
                            (iv) by redesignating subsections (d) and 
                        (e) as subsections (c) and (d), respectively; 
                        and
                            (v) by striking subsection (f).
                    (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for 
                the National Nuclear Security Administration Act is 
                amended by striking the item relating to section 3241A 
                and inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 3241A. Annual report on personnel levels of the Office of the 
                            Administrator.''.
            (9) Compliance with federal acquisition regulation.--
        Section 3262 of the National Nuclear Security Administration 
        Act (50 U.S.C. 2462) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``The Administrator'' and inserting 
                the following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator'';
                    (B) by inserting ``specific to the Administration'' 
                after ``procedures''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(b) Requirement for Procedures.--The procedures established under 
subsection (a) shall be separate from procedures applied to elements of 
the Department of Energy other than the Administration.''.
            (10) Definitions.--Section 3281(2)(A) of the National 
        Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2471(2)(A)) is 
        amended by striking ``Plant'' and inserting ``National Security 
        Campus''.
    (c) Amendments to Atomic Energy Defense Act.--
            (1) Definitions.--Section 4002(9)(A) of the Atomic Energy 
        Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501(9)(A)) is amended striking 
        ``Plant'' and inserting ``National Security Campus''.
            (2) Stockpile stewardship program.--Section 4201(a) of the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2521(a)) is amended by 
        striking ``The Secretary, acting through the Administrator,'' 
        and inserting ``The Administrator''.
            (3) Stockpile stewardship criteria.--Section 4202 of the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2522) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``Secretary of Energy'' and 
                        inserting ``Administrator''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Department of Energy'' 
                        and inserting ``Administration''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                        ``Secretary'' and inserting ``Department'';
                            (ii) by striking ``Secretary of Energy'' 
                        and inserting ``Administrator''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``Secretary of Defense'' 
                        and inserting ``Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons 
                        Council''.
            (4) Stockpile stewardship, management, and responsiveness 
        plan.--Section 4203 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
        2523) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d)(4)(A)(ii), by striking 
                ``quadrennial defense review if such strategy has not 
                been submitted as of the date of the plan'' and 
                inserting ``national defense strategy'';
                    (B) in subsection (e)(1)(A)(i), by striking ``or 
                the most recent quadrennial defense review, as 
                applicable under subsection (d)(4)(A), and the'' and 
                inserting ``, the national defense strategy, and the 
                most recent''; and
                    (C) in subsection (f)--
                            (i) by striking paragraph (4);
                            (ii) by redesignating paragraph (3) as 
                        paragraph (4); and
                            (iii) by inserting after paragraph (2) the 
                        following new paragraph (3):
            ``(3) The term `national defense strategy' means the review 
        of the defense programs and policies of the United States that 
        is carried out every four years under section 113(g) of title 
        10, United States Code.''.
            (5) Stockpile management program.--Section 4204 of the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2524) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``Secretary of Energy, 
                acting through the Administrator and in consultation 
                with the Secretary of Defense'' and inserting 
                ``Administrator, in consultation with the Nuclear 
                Weapons Council''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``Secretary of Energy'' and 
                inserting ``Administrator''.
            (6) Nuclear test ban readiness program.--Section 4207 of 
        the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2527) is amended, in 
        subsections (a) and (c), by striking ``Secretary of Energy'' 
        and inserting ``Administrator''.
            (7) Requirements for specific request for new or modified 
        nuclear weapons.--Section 4209 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
        (50 U.S.C. 2529) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``Secretary of Energy'' and 
                        inserting ``Administrator'';
                            (ii) by striking ``Secretary'' and 
                        inserting ``Administrator''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``in the budget'' and all 
                        that follows and inserting ``in the budget 
                        justification materials submitted to Congress 
                        in support of the Department of Energy budget 
                        for that fiscal year (as submitted with the 
                        budget of the President under section 1105(a) 
                        of title 31, United States Code).'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``The Secretary 
                shall include in a request for funds under subsection 
                (a)'' and inserting ``A request for funds under 
                subsection (a) shall include''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c), by striking ``Secretary'' 
                and inserting ``Secretary of Energy''.
            (8) Manufacturing infrastructure for nuclear weapons 
        stockpile.--Section 4212 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
        U.S.C. 2532) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``Secretary of Energy'' and 
                        inserting ``Administrator''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``most recent'' before 
                        ``Nuclear Posture Review''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Plant'' 
                        and inserting ``National Security Complex''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in paragraph (4), by striking 
                        ``Plant'' and inserting ``National Security 
                        Campus''.
            (9) Reports on life extension programs.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 4216 of the Atomic Energy 
                Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2536) is amended--
                            (i) in the section heading, by striking 
                        ``lifetime'' and inserting ``life''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``lifetime'' each place it 
                        appears and inserting ``life''.
                    (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for 
                the Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking 
                the item relating to section 4216 and inserting the 
                following new item:

``Sec. 4216. Reports on life extension programs.''.
            (10) Selected acquisition reports.--Section 4217 of the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2537) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``the 
                Secretary of Energy, acting through the 
                Administrator,'' and inserting ``the Administrator''; 
                and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), in the matter 
                        preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``Secretary of Energy, acting through the 
                        Administrator,'' and inserting 
                        ``Administrator''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``the 
                        Secretary or''.
            (11) Advice on safety, security, and reliability of nuclear 
        weapons stockpile.--Section 4218 of the Atomic Energy Defense 
        Act (50 U.S.C. 2538) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d), by striking ``or the 
                Commander of the United States Strategic Command''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) by striking ``, a member of the Nuclear 
                        Weapons Council, or the Commander of the United 
                        States Strategic Command'' and inserting ``or a 
                        member of the Nuclear Weapons Council''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``member, or Commander'' 
                        and inserting ``or member''.
            (12) Stockpile responsiveness plan.--Section 4220(b) of the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2538b(b)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Secretary of Energy, acting 
                through the Administrator and'' and inserting 
                ``Administrator,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Secretary of Defense'' and 
                inserting ``Nuclear Weapons Council''.
            (13) Tritium production program.--Section 4231 of the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2541) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Secretary of 
                Energy'' and inserting ``Administrator''; and
                    (B) in subsections (b) and (c), by striking 
                ``Secretary'' and inserting ``Administrator''.
            (14) Modernization and consolidation of tritium recycling 
        facilities.--Section 4234 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
        U.S.C. 2544) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
        by striking ``Secretary of Energy'' and inserting 
        ``Administrator''.
            (15) Procedures for meeting tritium production 
        requirements.--Section 4235 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
        (50 U.S.C. 2545) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Secretary of 
                Energy'' and inserting ``Administrator'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``Secretary'' 
                and inserting ``Administrator''; and
                    (C) by striking subsection (c).
            (16) Certification of status of security of facilities.--
        Section 4506 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2657) 
        is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (A)--
                                            (aa) by striking 
                                        ``September 30'' and inserting 
                                        ``December 31''; and
                                            (bb) by striking 
                                        ``Secretary of Energy'' and 
                                        inserting ``congressional 
                                        defense committees''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``and the Department of 
                                Energy'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``to the 
                        Secretary''; and
                            (iii) by striking paragraph (3); and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``December 1 of each 
                even-numbered year, the Secretary'' and inserting 
                ``December 31 of each even-numbered year, the Secretary 
                of Energy''.
            (17) Certificates of commendation for exemplary service.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 4605 of the Atomic Energy 
                Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2705) is amended--
                            (i) in the section heading, by striking 
                        ``department of energy'' and inserting 
                        ``administration'';
                            (ii) in subsection (a)--
                                    (I) by striking ``Department of 
                                Energy'' and inserting 
                                ``Administration'';
                                    (II) by striking ``a Department'' 
                                and inserting ``an Administration''; 
                                and
                                    (III) by striking ``the 
                                Department'' each place it appears and 
                                inserting ``the Administration''; and
                            (iii) in subsection (c)--
                                    (I) in the subsection heading, by 
                                striking ``Department of Energy'' and 
                                inserting ``Administration''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``Department of 
                                Energy'' each place it appears and 
                                inserting ``Administration''.
                    (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for 
                the Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking 
                the item relating to section 4605 and inserting the 
                following:

``Sec. 4605. Authority to provide certificate of commendation to 
                            Administration and contractor employees for 
                            exemplary service in stockpile stewardship 
                            and security.''.
            (18) Executive management training.--Section 4621 of the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2721) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by inserting ``and the Administrator'' 
                        after ``Secretary of Energy''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``and the 
                        Administration'' after ``Department of 
                        Energy''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``and 
                Administration'' after ``Department of Energy''.
            (19) Stockpile stewardship recruitment and training 
        program.--Section 4622 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
        U.S.C. 2722) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Secretary of 
                Energy'' and inserting ``Administrator''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``Secretary'' 
                and inserting ``Administrator''.
            (20) Fellowship program.--Section 4623 of the Atomic Energy 
        Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2723) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``Secretary of Energy'' and 
                        inserting ``Administrator''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Secretary'' and 
                        inserting ``Administrator'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``Department 
                of Energy'' and inserting ``Administration'';
                    (C) in subsections (c) and (d), by striking 
                ``Secretary'' and inserting ``Administrator'';
                    (D) in subsection (e), by striking ``Secretary'' 
                and all that follows through ``Defense Programs,'' and 
                inserting ``Administrator shall''; and
                    (E) in subsection (f)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                        ``Secretary'' and inserting ``Administrator''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking 
                        ``Secretary of Energy'' and inserting 
                        ``Administrator''.
            (21) Transfer of weapons activities funds.--Section 4711 of 
        the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2751) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``Secretary of Energy'' and 
                        inserting ``Administrator''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Department of Energy'' 
                        and inserting ``Administration'';
                    (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``Secretary, 
                acting through the Administrator,'' and inserting 
                ``Administrator''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``Department of Energy'' 
                        and inserting ``Administration''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Department'' and 
                        inserting ``Administration''.
            (22) Notification of cost overruns.--Section 4713(c)(2)(B) 
        of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2753(c)(2)(B)) is 
        amended by inserting ``or the Administration'' after 
        ``Department of Energy''.
            (23) Life-cycle cost estimates.--Section 4714(a) of the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2754(a)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``413.3'' and inserting ``413.3B''; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting ``, or a successor order,'' after 
                ``assets)''.
            (24) Unfunded priorities.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 4716 of the Atomic Energy 
                Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2756) is amended in the section 
                heading by striking ``national nuclear security 
                administration'' and inserting ``administration''.
                    (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for 
                the Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking 
                the item relating to section 4716 and inserting the 
                following new item:

``Sec. 4716. Unfunded priorities of the Administration.''.
            (25) Reviews of capital assets acquisition projects.--
        Section 4733(d)(3)(B) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
        U.S.C. 2773(d)(3)(B)) is amended by striking ``413.3'' and 
        inserting ``413.3B''.
            (26) Laboratory-directed research and development 
        programs.--Section 4811 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
        U.S.C. 2791) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or the 
                Administration'' after ``Department of Energy'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by striking ``The Secretary'' and 
                        inserting ``(1) Except as provided by paragraph 
                        (2), the Secretary'';
                            (ii) by striking ``such laboratories'' and 
                        inserting ``government-owned, contractor-
                        operated laboratories funded out of funds 
                        available to the Department of Energy''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new paragraph:
    ``(2) The Administrator shall prescribe regulations for the conduct 
of laboratory-directed research and development at government-owned, 
contractor-operated laboratories funded out of funds available to the 
Administration.''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) by inserting ``or the Administration'' 
                        after ``Department of Energy''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or the Administrator, 
                        as applicable,'' after ``Secretary''.
            (27) Report on use of funds for research and development.--
        Section 4812A of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2793) 
        is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                        ``Required'' and inserting ``of Secretary of 
                        Energy''; and
                            (ii) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``national security mission of the Department 
                        of Energy'' and inserting ``defense 
                        environmental cleanup and other defense 
                        missions of the Department of Energy (other 
                        than the national security mission of the 
                        Administration)'';
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as 
                subsections (c) and (d), respectively; and
                    (C) by inserting after subsection (a) the following 
                new subsection (b):
    ``(b) Report of Administrator.--The Administrator shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees, with the report of the Secretary 
required by subsection (a), a report on the funds expended during the 
preceding fiscal year on activities under the laboratory-directed 
research and development program of the Administration. The purpose of 
the report is to permit an assessment of the extent to which such 
activities support the national security mission of the 
Administration.''.

SEC. 3112. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION PERSONNEL SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle C of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2441 et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
end the following new section:

``SEC. 3248. ALTERNATIVE PERSONNEL SYSTEM.

    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator may adapt the pay banding and 
performance-based pay adjustment demonstration project carried out by 
the Administration under the authority provided by section 4703 of 
title 5, United States Code, into a permanent alternative personnel 
system for the Administration (to be known as the `National Nuclear 
Security Administration Personnel System') and implement that system 
with respect to employees of the Administration.
    ``(b) Modifications.--In adapting the demonstration project 
described in subsection (a) into a permanent alternative personnel 
system, the Administrator--
            ``(1) may, subject to paragraph (2), revise the 
        requirements and limitations of the demonstration project to 
        the extent necessary; and
            ``(2) shall--
                    ``(A) ensure that the permanent alternative 
                personnel system is carried out in a manner consistent 
                with the final plan for the demonstration project 
                published in the Federal Register on December 21, 2007 
                (72 Fed. Reg. 72776);
                    ``(B) ensure that significant changes in the system 
                not take effect until revisions to the plan for the 
                demonstration project are approved by the Office of 
                Personnel Management and published in the Federal 
                Register;
                    ``(C) ensure that procedural modifications or 
                clarifications to the final plan for the demonstration 
                project be made through local notification processes;
                    ``(D) authorize, and establish incentives for, 
                employees of the Administration to have rotational 
                assignments among different programs of the 
                Administration, the headquarters and field offices of 
                the Administration, and the management and operating 
                contractors of the Administration; and
                    ``(E) establish requirements for employees of the 
                Administration who are in the permanent alternative 
                personnel system described in subsection (a) to be 
                promoted to senior-level positions in the 
                Administration, including requirements with respect 
                to--
                            ``(i) professional training and continuing 
                        education; and
                            ``(ii) a certain number and types of 
                        rotational assignments under subparagraph (D), 
                        as determined by the Administrator.
    ``(c) Application to Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program.--The 
Director of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program established pursuant 
to section 4101 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2511) and 
section 3216 of this Act may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
the Navy, apply the alternative personnel system under subsection (a) 
to--
            ``(1) all employees of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program 
        in the competitive service (as defined in section 2102 of title 
        5, United States Code); and
            ``(2) all employees of the Department of Navy who are 
        assigned to the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program and are in the 
        excepted service (as defined in section 2103 of title 5, United 
        States Code) (other than such employees in statutory excepted 
        service systems).''.
    (b) Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear 
        Security shall provide a briefing to the appropriate 
        congressional committees on the implementation of section 3248 
        of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act, as added 
        by subsection (a).
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the congressional defense committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
                of the House of Representatives; and
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
                Representatives.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Section 3116 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a);
            (2) by redesignating subsections (b), (c), and (d) as 
        subsections (a), (b), and (c), respectively; and
            (3) in paragraph (1) of subsection (c), as so 
        redesignated--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                ``implementation of'' and all that follows through 
                ``subsection (b)'' and inserting ``implementation of 
                subsection (a)''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``subsection 
                (c)'' and inserting ``subsection (b)''.
    (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration Act is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 3247 the following new item:

``Sec. 3248. Alternative personnel system.''.

SEC. 3113. AMENDMENTS TO THE ATOMIC ENERGY ACT OF 1954.

    (a) Consultations.--Section 57 b.(2) of the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954 (42 U.S.C. 2077(b)(2)) is amended by inserting after ``the 
Department of Defense.'' the following: ``The Department of State, the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Department of Commerce, and the 
Department of Defense shall submit to the Secretary of Energy their 
comments on the determination of the Secretary under the previous 
sentence and any information and analysis needed to support their 
positions.''.
    (b) Delegation of Functions.--Section 161 of the Atomic Energy Act 
of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2201) is amended by striking subsection n. and 
inserting the following new subsection n.:
    ``n. delegate to the General Manager or other officers of the 
Commission--
            ``(1) the functions assigned to the Commission under 
        section 57 b. on a case-by-case basis consistent with the 
        national security interests of the United States; and
            ``(2) any of the other functions assigned to the Commission 
        under this Act except those specified in section 51, 61, 108, 
        123, 145 b. (with respect to the determination of those persons 
        to whom the Commission may reveal Restricted Data in the 
        national interest), 145 f., or 161 a.;''.
    (c) Civil Penalties.--Section 234 a. of the Atomic Energy Act (42 
U.S.C. 2282(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``57,''; and
            (2) by striking ``or (2)'' and inserting ``(2) violates any 
        provision of section 57, or (3)''.
    (d) Report.--Section 3136(e)(2) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (42 U.S.C. 2077a(e)(2)) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (E);
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new 
        subparagraph (D):
                    ``(D) any delegation of the functions under such 
                section 57 b. made under section 161 n.(1) of that Act, 
                including to whom such functions were delegated;'';
            (4) in subparagraph (E), as redesignated by paragraph (2), 
        by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F)(i) an explanation and justification of any 
                determination under paragraph (2) of such section 57 b. 
                that an authorization to transfer United States civil 
                nuclear technology to a foreign country is not in the 
                interest of the United States, and any conditions 
                placed on such an authorization, including any such 
                determination or conditions resulting from coordination 
                with the Department of State, the Nuclear Regulatory 
                Commission, the Department of Commerce, and the 
                Department of Defense; and
                    ``(ii) an explanation and justification of any 
                extensions of the deadlines established under the 
                procedures required by section 57 b.''.
    (e) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Secretary of Energy has the authority to impose civil penalties for 
violations of section 57 b.(2) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 
U.S.C. 2077(b)(2)), any rule, regulation, or order issued under that 
section, or any term, condition, or limitation of any license or 
certification issued under that section.
    (f) Regulations.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall--
            (1) revise the regulations of the Department of Energy to 
        reflect the authority of the Secretary to impose civil 
        penalties for the violations described in subsection (e); or
            (2) submit to Congress a report describing--
                    (A) why the Secretary cannot make such revisions; 
                and
                    (B) what additional amendments to law would be 
                required to enable the Secretary to do so.

SEC. 3114. EXTENSION OF ENHANCED PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY TO MANAGE SUPPLY 
              CHAIN RISK.

    Section 4806(g)(3) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
2786(g)(3)) is amended by striking ``four'' and inserting ``10''.

SEC. 3115. PILOT PROGRAM ON CONDUCT BY DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OF 
              BACKGROUND REVIEWS FOR ACCESS BY CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS TO 
              NATIONAL SECURITY LABORATORIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy shall establish a pilot 
program to assess the feasibility and advisability of conducting 
background reviews required by section 4502(a) of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2652(a)) within the Department of Energy.
    (b) Requirements.--Under the pilot program established under 
subsection (a), the Secretary may admit an individual described in 
section 4502(a) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2652(a)) to 
a facility of a national security laboratory described in that section 
if, in addition to the conduct of a background review under subsection 
(a) with respect to that individual--
            (1) the Secretary determines that the admission of that 
        individual to that facility is in the national interest and 
        will further science, technology, and engineering capabilities 
        in support of the mission of the Department of Energy; and
            (2) a security plan is developed and implemented to 
        mitigate the risks associated with the admission of that 
        individual to that facility.
    (c) Roles of Secretary and Director of National Intelligence and 
Director of Federal Bureau of Investigation.--
            (1) Role of secretary.--Under the pilot program under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall conduct background reviews 
        for all individuals described in section 4502(a) of the Atomic 
        Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2652(a)) seeking admission to 
        facilities of national security laboratories described in that 
        section. Such reviews by the Secretary shall be conducted 
        independent of and in addition to background reviews conducted 
        by the Director of National Intelligence and the Director of 
        the Federal Bureau of Investigation under that section.
            (2) Roles of director of national intelligence and director 
        of federal bureau of investigation.--Notwithstanding paragraph 
        (1), during the period during which the pilot program 
        established under subsection (a) is being carried out, the 
        Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation shall retain primary 
        responsibility for the conduct of all background reviews 
        required by section 4502(a) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
        (50 U.S.C. 2652(a)).
    (d) Termination.--The pilot program established under subsection 
(a) shall terminate on the date that is two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (e) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
which the pilot program established under subsection (a) terminates 
under subsection (d), the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the 
Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report on the conduct of background reviews under the 
pilot program that includes--
            (1) a comparison of the effectiveness of and timelines 
        required for background reviews conducted by the Secretary 
        under the pilot program and background reviews conducted by the 
        Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation under section 4502(a) of the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2652(a)); and
            (2) the number of such reviews conducted for individuals 
        who are citizens or agents of each country on the sensitive 
        countries list referred to in that section.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Select 
                Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) National security laboratory.--The term ``national 
        security laboratory'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 4002 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501).

SEC. 3116. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR ACCEPTANCE OF CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 
              ACCELERATION OF REMOVAL OR SECURITY OF FISSILE MATERIALS, 
              RADIOLOGICAL MATERIALS, AND RELATED EQUIPMENT AT 
              VULNERABLE SITES WORLDWIDE.

    Section 3132(f)(7) of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (50 U.S.C. 2569(f)(7)) is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2023''.

SEC. 3117. MODIFICATION OF LIMITATION ON DEVELOPMENT OF LOW-YIELD 
              NUCLEAR WEAPONS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The global posture of strategic nuclear forces has 
        changed dramatically during the 10 years preceding the date of 
        the enactment of this Act.
            (2) The Government of the Russian Federation--
                    (A) is violating the Treaty between the United 
                States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist 
                Republics on the Elimination of their Intermediate-
                Range and Shorter-Range Missiles, signed at Washington 
                December 8, 1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988 
                (commonly known as the ``INF Treaty'');
                    (B) is expanding its nuclear delivery systems 
                beyond the limitations provided for under the Treaty 
                between the United States of America and the Russian 
                Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and 
                Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on April 
                8, 2010, and entered into force on February 5, 2011 
                (commonly known as the ``New START Treaty''); and
                    (C) has considerable numerical advantages over the 
                United States in tactical nuclear weapons.
            (3) Congress concurs with the findings of the 2018 Nuclear 
        Posture Review.
            (4) United States nuclear forces must adjust to new 
        strategic realities.
    (b) Modification of Limitation.--Section 3116(c) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136; 117 
Stat. 1746; 50 U.S.C. 2529 note) is amended by striking ``specifically 
authorized by Congress'' and inserting ``the Secretary specifically 
requests funding for the development of that weapon pursuant to section 
4209(a) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2529(a))''.

SEC. 3118. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TERMINATING ACTIVITIES AT 
              MOX FACILITY.

    (a) In General.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or 
otherwise made available for the Department of Energy by this Act or 
any other Act for any fiscal year before fiscal year 2020 may be 
obligated or expended--
            (1) to terminate construction and project support 
        activities at the MOX facility; or
            (2) to convert the MOX facility to be used for any purpose 
        other than its original mission.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``MOX facility'' and 
``project support activities'' have the meanings given those terms in 
section 3121(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91).

                     Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

SEC. 3121. MODIFICATIONS TO COST-BENEFIT ANALYSES FOR COMPETITION OF 
              MANAGEMENT AND OPERATING CONTRACTS.

    Section 3121 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2175), as most recently 
amended by section 3135 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1207), is further 
amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) Reports Required.--If the Administrator for Nuclear Security 
awards a new contract to manage and operate a facility of the National 
Nuclear Security Administration, the Administrator shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report described in subsection (b) 
with respect to the contract by not later than 30 days after the 
completion of the period required to transition to the contract.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(3), by inserting ``, the costs of the 
        transition to the contract from the previous contract,'' after 
        ``conducting the competition''; and
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Comprehensive review.--
                    ``(A) Determination.--Except as provided in 
                paragraph (3), the Comptroller General shall determine, 
                in consultation with the congressional defense 
                committees, whether to conduct a comprehensive review 
                of a report required by subsection (a).
                    ``(B) Submission.--The Comptroller General shall 
                submit a comprehensive review conducted under 
                subparagraph (A) of a report required by subsection (a) 
                to the congressional defense committees not later than 
                3 years after that report is submitted to such 
                committees.
                    ``(C) Elements.--A comprehensive review conducted 
                under subparagraph (A) of a report required by 
                subsection (a) shall include an assessment, based on 
                the most current information available, of the 
                following:
                            ``(i) The actual cost savings achieved 
                        compared to cost savings estimated under 
                        subsection (b)(1), and any increased costs 
                        incurred under the contract that were 
                        unexpected or uncertain at the time the 
                        contract was awarded.
                            ``(ii) Any disruptions or delays in mission 
                        activities or deliverables resulting from the 
                        competition for the contract compared to the 
                        disruptions and delays estimated under 
                        subsection (b)(4).
                            ``(iii) Whether expected benefits of the 
                        competition with respect to mission performance 
                        or operations have been achieved.
                            ``(iv) Such other matters as the 
                        Comptroller General considers appropriate.''; 
                        and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (3).

SEC. 3122. REVIEW OF DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy shall enter into an 
arrangement with the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and 
Medicine to conduct a review of the defense environmental cleanup 
activities of the Office of Environmental Management of the Department 
of Energy.
    (b) Elements.--The review conducted under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) an assessment of--
                    (A) project management practices with respect to 
                the activities described in subsection (a);
                    (B) the outcomes of such activities; and
                    (C) the appropriateness of the level of engagement 
                and oversight of the Office of Environmental Management 
                with respect to such activities; and
            (2) recommendations with respect to actions to enhance the 
        effectiveness of such activities.

SEC. 3123. SURVEY OF WORKFORCE OF NATIONAL SECURITY LABORATORIES AND 
              NUCLEAR WEAPONS PRODUCTION FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes--
            (1) a detailed proposal for a survey of the workforce of 
        the national security laboratories and nuclear weapons 
        production facilities that is modeled on the Federal Employee 
        Viewpoint Survey of the Office of Personnel Management;
            (2) the determination of the Administrator with respect to 
        whether to implement the survey; and
            (3) if the Administrator determines not to implement the 
        survey, a description of the reasons for that determination.
    (b) Implementation Factors.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall address factors associated with implementation of the survey 
described in that subsection, including--
            (1) the costs of designing the survey;
            (2) the time required for and the costs of administering 
        the survey and analyzing the data from the survey;
            (3) the periodicity of administering the survey to 
        ascertain trends; and
            (4) any other matters the Administrator considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``national security 
laboratory'' and ``nuclear weapons production facility'' have the 
meanings given those terms in section 4002 of the Atomic Energy Defense 
Act (50 U.S.C. 2501).

SEC. 3124. ELIMINATION OF CERTAIN REPORTS.

    (a) Report of Owner's Agent on Hanford Waste Treatment and 
Immobilization Plant Contract.--Section 4446 of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2626) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (d); and
            (2) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections 
        (d) and (e), respectively.
    (b) Future-years Defense Environmental Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Section 4402A of the Atomic Energy Defense 
        Act (50 U.S.C. 2582a) is repealed.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for the 
        Atomic Energy Defense Act is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 4402A.
    (c) Annual Certification of Shipments to Waste Isolation Pilot 
Plant.--Section 3115 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2759) is repealed.

SEC. 3125. IMPLEMENTATION OF NUCLEAR POSTURE REVIEW BY NATIONAL NUCLEAR 
              SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than December 1, 2018, the 
Administrator for Nuclear Security shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the implementation of the 2018 Nuclear 
Posture Review by the National Nuclear Security Administration.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A list of specific actions associated with 
        implementation of the policies set forth in the 2018 Nuclear 
        Posture Review applicable to the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration.
            (2) For each such action--
                    (A) an identification of the office within the 
                Administration with responsibility for the action; and
                    (B) key milestones for the action.
            (3) A discussion of any challenges to successfully 
        implementing such actions.
            (4) A description of the process established for monitoring 
        the implementation of such actions.
            (5) A description of policy decisions by the Administrator 
        that are necessary to complete the implementation of such 
        actions.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

SEC. 3201. AUTHORIZATION.

    There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2019, 
$31,243,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 
et seq.).

                  TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

SEC. 3501. MARITIME ADMINISTRATION.

    Section 109 of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
``Sec. 109. Maritime Administration
    ``(a) Organization and Mission.--The Maritime Administration is an 
administration in the Department of Transportation. The mission of the 
Maritime Administration is to foster, promote, and develop the merchant 
maritime industry of the United States.
    ``(b) Maritime Administrator.--The head of the Maritime 
Administration is the Maritime Administrator, who is appointed by the 
President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The 
Administrator shall report directly to the Secretary of Transportation 
and carry out the duties prescribed by the Secretary.
    ``(c) Deputy Maritime Administrator.--The Maritime Administration 
shall have a Deputy Maritime Administrator, who is appointed in the 
competitive service by the Secretary, after consultation with the 
Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall carry out the duties 
prescribed by the Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall be 
Acting Administrator during the absence or disability of the 
Administrator and, unless the Secretary designates another individual, 
during a vacancy in the office of Administrator.
    ``(d) Duties and Powers Vested in Secretary.--All duties and powers 
of the Maritime Administration are vested in the Secretary.
    ``(e) Regional Offices.--The Maritime Administration shall have 
regional offices for the Atlantic, Gulf, Great Lakes, and Pacific port 
ranges, and may have other regional offices as necessary. The Secretary 
shall appoint a qualified individual as Director of each regional 
office. The Secretary shall carry out appropriate activities and 
programs of the Maritime Administration through the regional offices.
    ``(f) Interagency and Industry Relations.--The Secretary shall 
establish and maintain liaison with other agencies, and with 
representative trade organizations throughout the United States, 
concerned with the transportation of commodities by water in the export 
and import foreign commerce of the United States, for the purpose of 
securing preference to vessels of the United States for the 
transportation of those commodities.
    ``(g) Detailing Officers From Armed Forces.--To assist the 
Secretary in carrying out duties and powers relating to the Maritime 
Administration, not more than five officers of the Armed Forces may be 
detailed to the Secretary at any one time, in addition to details 
authorized by any other law. During the period of a detail, the 
Secretary shall pay the officer an amount that, when added to the 
officer's pay and allowances as an officer in the Armed Forces, makes 
the officer's total pay and allowances equal to the amount that would 
be paid to an individual performing work the Secretary considers to be 
of similar importance, difficulty, and responsibility as that performed 
by the officer during the detail.
    ``(h) Contracts, Cooperative Agreements, and Audits.--
            ``(1) Contracts and cooperative agreements.--In the same 
        manner that a private corporation may make a contract within 
        the scope of its authority under its charter, the Secretary may 
        make contracts and cooperative agreements for the United States 
        Government and disburse amounts to--
                    ``(A) carry out the Secretary's duties and powers 
                under this section, subtitle V of title 46, and all 
                other Maritime Administration programs; and
                    ``(B) protect, preserve, and improve collateral 
                held by the Secretary to secure indebtedness.
            ``(2) Audits.--The financial transactions of the Secretary 
        under paragraph (1) shall be audited by the Comptroller 
        General. The Comptroller General shall allow credit for an 
        expenditure shown to be necessary because of the nature of the 
        business activities authorized by this section or subtitle V of 
        title 46. At least once a year, the Comptroller General shall 
        report to Congress any departure by the Secretary from this 
        section or subtitle V of title 46.
    ``(i) Grant Administrative Expenses.--Except as otherwise provided 
by law, the administrative and related expenses for the administration 
of any grant programs by the Maritime Administrator may not exceed 3 
percent.
    ``(j) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, there are authorized to be appropriated such 
        amounts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and powers 
        of the Secretary relating to the Maritime Administration.
            ``(2) Limitations.--Only those amounts specifically 
        authorized by law may be appropriated for the use of the 
        Maritime Administration for--
                    ``(A) acquisition, construction, or reconstruction 
                of vessels;
                    ``(B) construction-differential subsidies incident 
                to the construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning 
                of vessels;
                    ``(C) costs of national defense features;
                    ``(D) payments of obligations incurred for 
                operating-differential subsidies;
                    ``(E) expenses necessary for research and 
                development activities, including reimbursement of the 
                Vessel Operations Revolving Fund for losses resulting 
                from expenses of experimental vessel operations;
                    ``(F) the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund;
                    ``(G) National Defense Reserve Fleet expenses;
                    ``(H) expenses necessary to carry out part B of 
                subtitle V of title 46; and
                    ``(I) other operations and training expenses 
                related to the development of waterborne transportation 
                systems, the use of waterborne transportation systems, 
                and general administration.''.

SEC. 3502. PERMANENT AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION TO ISSUE 
              VESSEL WAR RISK INSURANCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 53912 of title 46, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 539 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 53912.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

SEC. 4001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES.

    (a) In General.--Whenever a funding table in this division 
specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or 
activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount 
for the project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to 
the availability of appropriations.
    (b) Merit-based Decisions.--A decision to commit, obligate, or 
expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar 
amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
            (1) be based on merit-based selection procedures in 
        accordance with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 
        of title 10, United States Code, or on competitive procedures; 
        and
            (2) comply with other applicable provisions of law.
    (c) Relationship to Transfer and Programming Authority.--An amount 
specified in the funding tables in this division may be transferred or 
reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by 
another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or 
reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not 
count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under 
section 1001 or section 1522 of this Act or any other provision of law, 
unless such transfer or reprogramming would move funds between 
appropriation accounts.
    (d) Applicability to Classified Annex.--This section applies to any 
classified annex that accompanies this Act.
    (e) Oral Written Communications.--No oral or written communication 
concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in this division 
shall supersede the requirements of this section.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
            SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT  (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2019         Senate
 Line                 Item                    Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        FIXED WING
    2   UTILITY F/W AIRCRAFT............             744             744
    3   MQ-1 UAV........................          43,326          43,326
    4   RQ-11 (RAVEN)...................          46,416          46,416
        ROTARY
    7   AH-64 APACHE BLOCK IIIA REMAN...         753,248         753,248
    8   AH-64 APACHE BLOCK IIIA REMAN AP         174,550         174,550
    9   AH-64 APACHE BLOCK IIIB NEW              284,687         284,687
         BUILD..........................
   10   AH-64 APACHE BLOCK IIIB NEW               58,600          58,600
         BUILD AP.......................
   11   UH-60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP)...         988,810         988,810
   12   UH-60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP) AP         106,150         106,150
   13   UH-60 BLACK HAWK A AND L MODELS.         146,138         146,138
   14   CH-47 HELICOPTER................          99,278          99,278
   15   CH-47 HELICOPTER AP.............          24,235          24,235
        MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
   18   UNIVERSAL GROUND CONTROL                  27,114          27,114
         EQUIPMENT (UAS)................
   19   GRAY EAGLE MODS2................          97,781          97,781
   20   MULTI SENSOR ABN RECON (MIP)....          52,274          52,274
   21   AH-64 MODS......................         104,996         104,996
   22   CH-47 CARGO HELICOPTER MODS                7,807           7,807
         (MYP)..........................
   23   GRCS SEMA MODS (MIP)............           5,573           5,573
   24   ARL SEMA MODS (MIP).............           7,522           7,522
   25   EMARSS SEMA MODS (MIP)..........          20,448          20,448
   26   UTILITY/CARGO AIRPLANE MODS.....          17,719          17,719
   27   UTILITY HELICOPTER MODS.........           6,443           6,443
   28   NETWORK AND MISSION PLAN........         123,614         123,614
   29   COMMS, NAV SURVEILLANCE.........         161,969         161,969
   30   DEGRADED VISUAL ENVIRONMENT.....          30,000          30,000
   31   GATM ROLLUP.....................          26,848          26,848
   32   RQ-7 UAV MODS...................         103,246         103,246
   33   UAS MODS........................          17,644          17,644
        GROUND SUPPORT AVIONICS
   34   AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY EQUIPMENT          57,170          57,170
   35   SURVIVABILITY CM................           5,853           5,853
   36   CMWS............................          13,496          13,496
   37   COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES           36,839          36,839
         (CIRCM)........................
        OTHER SUPPORT
   38   AVIONICS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......           1,778           1,778
   39   COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT.........          34,818          34,818
   40   AIRCREW INTEGRATED SYSTEMS......          27,243          27,243
   41   AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL.............          63,872          63,872
   42   INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...........           1,417           1,417
   43   LAUNCHER, 2.75 ROCKET...........           1,901           1,901
   44   LAUNCHER GUIDED MISSILE: LONGBOW             991             991
         HELLFIRE XM2...................
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY       3,782,558       3,782,558
 
        MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE SYSTEM
    1   LOWER TIER AIR AND MISSILE               111,395         111,395
         DEFENSE (AMD)..................
    2   MSE MISSILE.....................         871,276         871,276
    3   INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION                 145,636         645,636
         CAPABILITY INC 2-I.............
            Acceleration of cruise                             [500,000]
            missile defense.............
    4   INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION                  31,286          31,286
         CAPABILITY INC 2-I AP..........
        AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILE SYSTEM
    6   JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MSLS (JAGM).         276,462         276,462
        ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT MISSILE SYS
    8   JAVELIN (AAWS-M) SYSTEM SUMMARY.         303,665         303,665
    9   TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY............         105,014         105,014
   10   TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY AP.........          19,949          19,949
   11   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)......         359,613         359,613
   12   MLRS REDUCED RANGE PRACTICE               20,964          20,964
         ROCKETS (RRPR).................
        MODIFICATIONS
   15   PATRIOT MODS....................         313,228         313,228
   16   ATACMS MODS.....................         221,656         141,656
            Requested quantity exceeds                         [-80,000]
            maximum.....................
   17   GMLRS MOD.......................             266             266
   18   STINGER MODS....................          94,756          94,756
   19   AVENGER MODS....................          48,670          48,670
   20   ITAS/TOW MODS...................           3,173           3,173
   21   MLRS MODS.......................         383,216         383,216
   22   HIMARS MODIFICATIONS............          10,196          10,196
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   23   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........          27,737          27,737
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
   24   AIR DEFENSE TARGETS.............           6,417           6,417
   25   PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT.........           1,202           1,202
        TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY.       3,355,777       3,775,777
 
        PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY
        TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
    2   ARMORED MULTI PURPOSE VEHICLE            479,801         379,801
         (AMPV).........................
            Program decrease............                      [-100,000]
        MODIFICATION OF TRACKED COMBAT
         VEHICLES
    4   STRYKER (MOD)...................         287,490         138,100
            Army requested transfer.....                      [-149,390]
    5   STRYKER UPGRADE.................          21,900         171,290
            Army requested transfer.....                       [149,390]
    6   BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD)...........         625,424         301,424
            Program decrease............                      [-324,000]
    7   M109 FOV MODIFICATIONS..........          26,482          26,482
    8   PALADIN INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT            351,802         461,802
         (PIM)..........................
            Program increase............                       [110,000]
    9   IMPROVED RECOVERY VEHICLE (M88A2         110,500         110,500
         HERCULES)......................
   10   ASSAULT BRIDGE (MOD)............           2,120           2,120
   11   ASSAULT BREACHER VEHICLE........          62,407          62,407
   12   M88 FOV MODS....................           4,517           4,517
   13   JOINT ASSAULT BRIDGE............         142,255         142,255
   14   M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD)............         927,600         927,600
   15   ABRAMS UPGRADE PROGRAM..........       1,075,999       1,075,999
        WEAPONS & OTHER COMBAT VEHICLES
   18   M240 MEDIUM MACHINE GUN (7.62MM)           1,955           1,955
   19   MULTI-ROLE ANTI-ARMOR ANTI-               23,345          23,345
         PERSONNEL WEAPON S.............
   20   GUN AUTOMATIC 30MM M230.........           7,434           7,434
   21   MACHINE GUN, CAL .50 M2 ROLL....          22,330          22,330
   22   MORTAR SYSTEMS..................          12,470          12,470
   23   XM320 GRENADE LAUNCHER MODULE                697             697
         (GLM)..........................
   24   COMPACT SEMI-AUTOMATIC SNIPER             46,236          46,236
         SYSTEM.........................
   25   CARBINE.........................          69,306          69,306
   26   SMALL ARMS--FIRE CONTROL........           7,929           7,929
   27   COMMON REMOTELY OPERATED WEAPONS          35,968          35,968
         STATION........................
   28   HANDGUN.........................          48,251          48,251
        MOD OF WEAPONS AND OTHER COMBAT
         VEH
   29   MK-19 GRENADE MACHINE GUN MODS..           1,684           1,684
   30   M777 MODS.......................           3,086           3,086
   31   M4 CARBINE MODS.................          31,575          31,575
   32   M2 50 CAL MACHINE GUN MODS......          21,600          21,600
   33   M249 SAW MACHINE GUN MODS.......           3,924           3,924
   34   M240 MEDIUM MACHINE GUN MODS....           6,940           6,940
   35   SNIPER RIFLES MODIFICATIONS.....           2,747           2,747
   36   M119 MODIFICATIONS..............           5,704           5,704
   37   MORTAR MODIFICATION.............           3,965           3,965
   38   MODIFICATIONS LESS THAN $5.0M              5,577           5,577
         (WOCV-WTCV)....................
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
   39   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (WOCV-               3,174           3,174
         WTCV)..........................
   40   PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT (WOCV-             3,284           3,284
         WTCV)..........................
   41   SMALL ARMS EQUIPMENT (SOLDIER              1,640           1,640
         ENH PROG)......................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY       4,489,118       4,175,118
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY
        SMALL/MEDIUM CAL AMMUNITION
    1   CTG, 5.56MM, ALL TYPES..........          41,848          35,148
            FY2018 Omnibus forward                              [-6,700]
            finance.....................
    2   CTG, 7.62MM, ALL TYPES..........          86,199          86,199
    3   CTG, HANDGUN, ALL TYPES.........          20,158          20,158
    4   CTG, .50 CAL, ALL TYPES.........          65,573          65,573
    5   CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES............           8,198           8,198
    7   CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES............          77,995          77,995
    8   CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES............          69,781          69,781
        MORTAR AMMUNITION
    9   60MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES..........          45,280          45,280
   10   81MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES..........          46,853          46,853
   11   120MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES.........          83,003          83,003
        TANK AMMUNITION
   12   CARTRIDGES, TANK, 105MM AND              168,101         168,101
         120MM, ALL TYPES...............
        ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
   13   ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES, 75MM &              39,341          39,341
         105MM, ALL TYPES...............
   14   ARTILLERY PROJECTILE, 155MM, ALL         211,442         211,442
         TYPES..........................
   15   PROJ 155MM EXTENDED RANGE M982..         100,906         100,906
   16   ARTILLERY PROPELLANTS, FUZES AND         236,677         136,677
         PRIMERS, ALL...................
            Ammunition Cuts.............                      [-100,000]
        MINES
   17   MINES & CLEARING CHARGES, ALL             15,905          15,905
         TYPES..........................
        ROCKETS
   18   SHOULDER LAUNCHED MUNITIONS, ALL           4,503           4,503
         TYPES..........................
   19   ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL TYPES.....         211,211         211,211
        OTHER AMMUNITION
   20   CAD/PAD, ALL TYPES..............          10,428          10,428
   21   DEMOLITION MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.          44,656          44,656
   22   GRENADES, ALL TYPES.............          19,896          19,896
   23   SIGNALS, ALL TYPES..............          10,121          10,121
   24   SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES...........          11,464          11,464
        MISCELLANEOUS
   25   AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL TYPES......           5,224           5,224
   26   NON-LETHAL AMMUNITION, ALL TYPES           4,310           4,310
   27   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION                11,193          11,193
         (AMMO).........................
   28   AMMUNITION PECULIAR EQUIPMENT...          10,500          10,500
   29   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION          18,456          18,456
         (AMMO).........................
   30   CLOSEOUT LIABILITIES............             100             100
        PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT
   32   INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...........         394,133         394,133
   33   CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS                   157,535         157,535
         DEMILITARIZATION...............
   34   ARMS INITIATIVE.................           3,771           3,771
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,       2,234,761       2,128,061
         ARMY...........................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        TACTICAL VEHICLES
    1   TACTICAL TRAILERS/DOLLY SETS....          16,512          16,512
    2   SEMITRAILERS, FLATBED:..........          16,951          16,951
    3   AMBULANCE, 4 LITTER, 5/4 TON,             50,123          50,123
         4X4............................
    4   GROUND MOBILITY VEHICLES (GMV)..          46,988          46,988
    6   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE....       1,319,436       1,069,436
            Program reduction...........                      [-250,000]
    7   TRUCK, DUMP, 20T (CCE)..........           6,480           6,480
    8   FAMILY OF MEDIUM TACTICAL VEH            132,882         132,882
         (FMTV).........................
    9   FIRETRUCKS & ASSOCIATED                   14,842          14,842
         FIREFIGHTING EQUIP.............
   10   FAMILY OF HEAVY TACTICAL                 138,105         138,105
         VEHICLES (FHTV)................
   12   HVY EXPANDED MOBILE TACTICAL              31,892          31,892
         TRUCK EXT SERV.................
   13   TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLE                  38,128          38,128
         PROTECTION KITS................
   14   MODIFICATION OF IN SVC EQUIP....          78,507          78,507
        NON-TACTICAL VEHICLES
   16   HEAVY ARMORED VEHICLE...........             790             790
   17   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....           1,390           1,390
   18   NONTACTICAL VEHICLES, OTHER.....          15,415          15,415
        COMM--JOINT COMMUNICATIONS
   20   SIGNAL MODERNIZATION PROGRAM....         150,777         150,777
   21   TACTICAL NETWORK TECHNOLOGY MOD          469,117         469,117
         IN SVC.........................
   22   SITUATION INFORMATION TRANSPORT.          62,727          62,727
   23   JOINT INCIDENT SITE                       13,895          13,895
         COMMUNICATIONS CAPABILITY......
   24   JCSE EQUIPMENT (USREDCOM).......           4,866           4,866
        COMM--SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
   27   DEFENSE ENTERPRISE WIDEBAND              108,133         108,133
         SATCOM SYSTEMS.................
   28   TRANSPORTABLE TACTICAL COMMAND            56,737          56,737
         COMMUNICATIONS.................
   29   SHF TERM........................          13,100          13,100
   30   SMART-T (SPACE).................           9,160           9,160
   31   GLOBAL BRDCST SVC--GBS..........          25,647          25,647
   32   ENROUTE MISSION COMMAND (EMC)...          37,401          37,401
        COMM--C3 SYSTEM
   36   COE TACTICAL SERVER                       20,500          20,500
         INFRASTRUCTURE (TSI)...........
        COMM--COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS
   38   HANDHELD MANPACK SMALL FORM FIT          351,565         351,565
         (HMS)..........................
   40   RADIO TERMINAL SET, MIDS LVT(2).           4,641           4,641
   41   TRACTOR DESK....................           2,187           2,187
   42   TRACTOR RIDE....................           9,411           9,411
   44   SPIDER FAMILY OF NETWORKED                17,515          17,515
         MUNITIONS INCR.................
   45   TACTICAL COMMUNICATIONS AND                  819             819
         PROTECTIVE SYSTEM..............
   46   UNIFIED COMMAND SUITE...........          17,807          17,807
   47   COTS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT...         191,835         191,835
   48   FAMILY OF MED COMM FOR COMBAT             25,177          25,177
         CASUALTY CARE..................
        COMM--INTELLIGENCE COMM
   50   CI AUTOMATION ARCHITECTURE (MIP)           9,740           9,740
   51   DEFENSE MILITARY DECEPTION                 2,667           2,667
         INITIATIVE.....................
        INFORMATION SECURITY
   53   FAMILY OF BIOMETRICS............           8,319           8,319
   54   INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY                2,000           2,000
         PROGRAM-ISSP...................
   55   COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY (COMSEC)          88,337          88,337
   56   DEFENSIVE CYBER OPERATIONS......          51,343          51,343
   57   INSIDER THREAT PROGRAM--UNIT                 330             330
         ACTIVITY MONITO................
   58   PERSISTENT CYBER TRAINING                  3,000           3,000
         ENVIRONMENT....................
        COMM--LONG HAUL COMMUNICATIONS
   59   BASE SUPPORT COMMUNICATIONS.....          34,434          34,434
        COMM--BASE COMMUNICATIONS
   60   INFORMATION SYSTEMS.............          95,558          95,558
   61   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT                       4,736           4,736
         MODERNIZATION PROGRAM..........
   62   HOME STATION MISSION COMMAND              24,479          24,479
         CENTERS (HSMCC)................
   63   INSTALLATION INFO INFRASTRUCTURE         216,433         216,433
         MOD PROGRAM....................
        ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT REL ACT
         (TIARA)
   66   JTT/CIBS-M (MIP)................          10,268          10,268
   68   DCGS-A (MIP)....................         261,863         261,863
   69   JOINT TACTICAL GROUND STATION              5,434           5,434
         (JTAGS) (MIP)..................
   70   TROJAN (MIP)....................          20,623          20,623
   71   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (INTEL SPT)           45,998          47,798
         (MIP)..........................
            SOUTHCOM SIGINT Suite COMSAT                         [1,800]
            RF..........................
   72   CI HUMINT AUTO REPRTING &                    296             296
         COLL(CHARCS)(MIP)..............
   76   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (MIP).....             410             410
        ELECT EQUIP--ELECTRONIC WARFARE
         (EW)
   77   LIGHTWEIGHT COUNTER MORTAR RADAR           9,165           9,165
   78   EW PLANNING & MANAGEMENT TOOLS             5,875           5,875
         (EWPMT)........................
   79   AIR VIGILANCE (AV) (MIP)........           8,497           8,497
   83   CI MODERNIZATION (MIP)..........             486             486
        ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL SURV. (TAC
         SURV)
   84   SENTINEL MODS...................          79,629          79,629
   85   NIGHT VISION DEVICES............         153,180         153,180
   87   SMALL TACTICAL OPTICAL RIFLE              22,882          22,882
         MOUNTED MLRF...................
   88   RADIATION MONITORING SYSTEMS....          17,393          17,393
   90   INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION FAMILY           46,740          46,740
         OF SYSTEMS.....................
   91   FAMILY OF WEAPON SIGHTS (FWS)...         140,737         140,737
   93   PROFILER........................             171             171
   94   JOINT BATTLE COMMAND--PLATFORM           405,239         405,239
         (JBC-P)........................
   95   JOINT EFFECTS TARGETING SYSTEM            66,574          66,574
         (JETS).........................
   96   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (LLDR)......          20,783          20,783
   97   COMPUTER BALLISTICS: LHMBC XM32.           8,553           8,553
   98   MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEM......          21,489          21,489
   99   COUNTERFIRE RADARS..............         162,121         162,121
        ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL C2 SYSTEMS
  100   ARMY COMMAND POST INTEGRATED               2,855           2,855
         INFRASTRUCTURE (...............
  101   FIRE SUPPORT C2 FAMILY..........          19,153          19,153
  102   AIR & MSL DEFENSE PLANNING &              33,837          33,837
         CONTROL SYS....................
  103   LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE SUPPORT                5,136           5,136
         (LCSS).........................
  104   NETWORK MANAGEMENT                        18,329          18,329
         INITIALIZATION AND SERVICE.....
  105   MANEUVER CONTROL SYSTEM (MCS)...          38,015          38,015
  106   GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM-             15,164          15,164
         ARMY (GCSS-A)..................
  107   INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY              29,239          29,239
         SYSTEM-ARMY (IPP...............
  109   RECONNAISSANCE AND SURVEYING               6,823           6,823
         INSTRUMENT SET.................
  110   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT (ENFIRE)           1,177           1,177
        ELECT EQUIP--AUTOMATION
  111   ARMY TRAINING MODERNIZATION.....          12,265          12,265
  112   AUTOMATED DATA PROCESSING EQUIP.         201,875         186,875
            Consolidating more IT                              [-15,000]
            purchases...................
  113   GENERAL FUND ENTERPRISE BUSINESS          10,976          10,976
         SYSTEMS FAM....................
  114   HIGH PERF COMPUTING MOD PGM               66,330          66,330
         (HPCMP)........................
  115   CONTRACT WRITING SYSTEM.........           5,927           5,927
  116   RESERVE COMPONENT AUTOMATION SYS          27,896          27,896
         (RCAS).........................
        ELECT EQUIP--AUDIO VISUAL SYS (A/
         V)
  117   TACTICAL DIGITAL MEDIA..........           4,392           4,392
  118   ITEMS LESS THAN $5M (SURVEYING             1,970           1,970
         EQUIPMENT).....................
        ELECT EQUIP--SUPPORT
  119   PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT (C-E)...             506             506
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............           4,501           4,501
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
        CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE EQUIPMENT
  121   PROTECTIVE SYSTEMS..............           2,314           2,314
  122   FAMILY OF NON-LETHAL EQUIPMENT             7,478           7,478
         (FNLE).........................
  124   CBRN DEFENSE....................         173,954         173,954
        BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
  125   TACTICAL BRIDGING...............          98,229          98,229
  126   TACTICAL BRIDGE, FLOAT-RIBBON...          64,438          64,438
  127   COMMON BRIDGE TRANSPORTER (CBT)           79,916          79,916
         RECAP..........................
        ENGINEER (NON-CONSTRUCTION)
         EQUIPMENT
  128   HANDHELD STANDOFF MINEFIELD                8,471           8,471
         DETECTION SYS-HST..............
  129   GRND STANDOFF MINE DETECTN SYSM           29,883          29,883
         (GSTAMIDS).....................
  130   AREA MINE DETECTION SYSTEM                11,594          11,594
         (AMDS).........................
  131   HUSKY MOUNTED DETECTION SYSTEM            40,834          40,834
         (HMDS).........................
  132   ROBOTIC COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM              4,029           4,029
         (RCSS).........................
  133   EOD ROBOTICS SYSTEMS                      14,208          14,208
         RECAPITALIZATION...............
  134   ROBOTICS AND APPLIQUE SYSTEMS...          31,456          31,456
  136   REMOTE DEMOLITION SYSTEMS.......           1,748           1,748
  137   &lt; $5M, COUNTERMINE EQUIPMENT....           7,829           7,829
  138   FAMILY OF BOATS AND MOTORS......           5,806           5,806
        COMBAT SERVICE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  139   HEATERS AND ECU'S...............           9,852           9,852
  140   SOLDIER ENHANCEMENT.............           1,103           1,103
  141   PERSONNEL RECOVERY SUPPORT                 5,875           5,875
         SYSTEM (PRSS)..................
  142   GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM...........          92,487          92,487
  143   MOBILE SOLDIER POWER............          30,774          30,774
  145   FIELD FEEDING EQUIPMENT.........          17,521          17,521
  146   CARGO AERIAL DEL & PERSONNEL              44,855          44,855
         PARACHUTE SYSTEM...............
  147   FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT AND                 17,173          17,173
         CONSTRUCTION SETS..............
  148   ITEMS LESS THAN $5M (ENG SPT)...           2,000           2,000
        PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
  149   QUALITY SURVEILLANCE EQUIPMENT..           1,770           1,770
  150   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS, PETROLEUM           39,730          39,730
         & WATER........................
        MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
  151   COMBAT SUPPORT MEDICAL..........          57,752          57,752
        MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
  152   MOBILE MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT              37,722          37,722
         SYSTEMS........................
  153   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (MAINT EQ)           4,985           4,985
        CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
  155   SCRAPERS, EARTHMOVING...........           7,961           7,961
  156   HYDRAULIC EXCAVATOR.............           1,355           1,355
  158   ALL TERRAIN CRANES..............          13,031          13,031
  159   HIGH MOBILITY ENGINEER EXCAVATOR          46,048          46,048
         (HMEE).........................
  160   ENHANCED RAPID AIRFIELD                      980             980
         CONSTRUCTION CAPAP.............
  161   CONST EQUIP ESP.................          37,017          37,017
  162   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (CONST               6,103           6,103
         EQUIP).........................
        RAIL FLOAT CONTAINERIZATION
         EQUIPMENT
  163   ARMY WATERCRAFT ESP.............          27,711          27,711
  164   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (FLOAT/              8,385           8,385
         RAIL)..........................
        GENERATORS
  165   GENERATORS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIP.         133,772         133,772
  166   TACTICAL ELECTRIC POWER                    8,333           8,333
         RECAPITALIZATION...............
        MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT
  167   FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS.............          12,901          12,901
        TRAINING EQUIPMENT
  168   COMBAT TRAINING CENTERS SUPPORT.         123,228         123,228
  169   TRAINING DEVICES, NONSYSTEM.....         228,598         228,598
  170   CLOSE COMBAT TACTICAL TRAINER...          33,080          33,080
  171   AVIATION COMBINED ARMS TACTICAL           32,700          32,700
         TRAINER........................
  172   GAMING TECHNOLOGY IN SUPPORT OF           25,161          25,161
         ARMY TRAINING..................
        TEST MEASURE AND DIG EQUIPMENT
         (TMD)
  173   CALIBRATION SETS EQUIPMENT......           4,270           4,270
  174   INTEGRATED FAMILY OF TEST                 76,295          76,295
         EQUIPMENT (IFTE)...............
  175   TEST EQUIPMENT MODERNIZATION               9,806           9,806
         (TEMOD)........................
        OTHER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  176   M25 STABILIZED BINOCULAR........           4,368           4,368
  177   RAPID EQUIPPING SOLDIER SUPPORT            9,879           9,879
         EQUIPMENT......................
  178   PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEMS (OPA3)          54,043          54,043
  179   BASE LEVEL COMMON EQUIPMENT.....           6,633           6,633
  180   MODIFICATION OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT          49,797          49,797
         (OPA-3)........................
  181   PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT (OTH)...           2,301           2,301
  182   SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR USER                11,608          11,608
         TESTING........................
  183   TRACTOR YARD....................           4,956           4,956
        OPA2
  184   INITIAL SPARES--C&E.............           9,817           9,817
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY...       7,999,529       7,736,329
 
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        COMBAT AIRCRAFT
    1   F/A-18E/F (FIGHTER) HORNET......       1,937,553       1,937,553
    2   F/A-18E/F (FIGHTER) HORNET AP...          58,799          58,799
    3   JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER CV.........       1,144,958       1,023,958
            Program Realignment.........                      [-121,000]
    4   JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER CV AP......         140,010         140,010
    5   JSF STOVL.......................       2,312,847       2,312,847
    6   JSF STOVL AP....................         228,492         228,492
    7   CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT).............       1,113,804       1,113,804
    8   CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT) AP..........         161,079         161,079
    9   V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT)..............         806,337         806,337
   10   V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT) AP...........          36,955          36,955
   11   H-1 UPGRADES (UH-1Y/AH-1Z)......         820,755         820,755
   14   P-8A POSEIDON...................       1,803,753       1,803,753
   15   P-8A POSEIDON AP................         180,000         180,000
   16   E-2D ADV HAWKEYE................         742,693         917,693
            UPL--1 additional Aircraft..                       [175,000]
   17   E-2D ADV HAWKEYE AP.............         240,734         240,734
   71   O/A-X LIGHT ATTACK AIRCRAFT.....               0         100,000
            Initial procurement for                            [100,000]
            light attack aircraft.......
        AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
   18   C-40A...........................         206,000               0
            Funded in FY18 Omnibus......                      [-206,000]
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   20   KC-130J.........................         160,433         160,433
   21   KC-130J AP......................         110,013         110,013
   22   MQ-4 TRITON.....................         568,743         568,743
   23   MQ-4 TRITON AP..................          58,522          58,522
   24   MQ-8 UAV........................          54,761          54,761
   25   STUASL0 UAV.....................          14,866          14,866
   26   VH-92A EXECUTIVE HELO...........         649,015         649,015
   72   UAV.............................               0         100,000
            Procurement of UAV..........                       [100,000]
        MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
   27   AEA SYSTEMS.....................          25,277          25,277
   28   AV-8 SERIES.....................          58,577          58,577
   29   ADVERSARY.......................          14,606          14,606
   30   F-18 SERIES.....................       1,213,482       1,227,382
            UPL--EA-18G Advanced Modes /                        [13,900]
            Cognitive EW................
   31   H-53 SERIES.....................          70,997          70,997
   32   SH-60 SERIES....................         130,661         130,661
   33   H-1 SERIES......................          87,143          87,143
   34   EP-3 SERIES.....................           3,633           3,633
   35   P-3 SERIES......................             803             803
   36   E-2 SERIES......................          88,780          88,780
   37   TRAINER A/C SERIES..............          11,660          11,660
   38   C-2A............................          11,327          11,327
   39   C-130 SERIES....................          79,075          79,075
   40   FEWSG...........................             597             597
   41   CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C SERIES......           8,932           8,932
   42   E-6 SERIES......................         181,821         181,821
   43   EXECUTIVE HELICOPTERS SERIES....          23,566          23,566
   44   SPECIAL PROJECT AIRCRAFT........           7,620           7,620
   45   T-45 SERIES.....................         195,475         195,475
   46   POWER PLANT CHANGES.............          21,521          21,521
   47   JPATS SERIES....................          27,644          27,644
   48   AVIATION LIFE SUPPORT MODS......          15,864          15,864
   49   COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT............         166,306         191,306
            UPL--F/A-18 E/F Adaptative                          [25,000]
            Radar Countermeasures.......
   50   COMMON AVIONICS CHANGES.........         117,551         117,551
   51   COMMON DEFENSIVE WEAPON SYSTEM..           1,994           1,994
   52   ID SYSTEMS......................          40,696          40,696
   53   P-8 SERIES......................          71,251          71,251
   54   MAGTF EW FOR AVIATION...........          11,590          11,590
   55   MQ-8 SERIES.....................          37,907          37,907
   57   V-22 (TILT/ROTOR ACFT) OSPREY...         214,820         214,820
   58   NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ)....             952             952
   59   F-35 STOVL SERIES...............          36,618          70,118
            F-35B Modifications Increase                        [33,500]
   60   F-35 CV SERIES..................          21,236          26,236
            F-35C Modifications Increase                         [5,000]
   61   QRC.............................         101,499         101,499
   62   MQ-4 SERIES.....................          48,278          48,278
   63   RQ-21 SERIES....................           6,904           6,904
        AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   64   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........       1,792,920       1,842,920
            F-35B and F-35C spares                              [50,000]
            quantity increase...........
        AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIP &
         FACILITIES
   65   COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT.........         421,606         421,606
   66   AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES..          24,496          24,496
   67   WAR CONSUMABLES.................          42,108          42,108
   68   OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES........           1,444           1,444
   69   SPECIAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......          49,489          49,489
   70   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION           1,951           1,951
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY      19,041,799      19,217,199
 
        WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
    1   TRIDENT II MODS.................       1,078,750       1,078,750
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
    2   MISSILE INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...           6,998           6,998
        STRATEGIC MISSILES
    3   TOMAHAWK........................          98,570          98,570
        TACTICAL MISSILES
    4   AMRAAM..........................         211,058         211,058
    5   SIDEWINDER......................          77,927         122,927
            Navy UPL: Increase to                               [45,000]
            maximum capacity............
    6   JSOW............................           1,330           1,330
    7   STANDARD MISSILE................         490,210         490,210
    8   STANDARD MISSILE AP.............         125,683         125,683
    9   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II..........          91,272          91,272
   10   RAM.............................          96,221          96,221
   11   JOINT AIR GROUND MISSILE (JAGM).          24,109          24,109
   14   STAND OFF PRECISION GUIDED                11,378          11,378
         MUNITIONS (SOPGM)..............
   15   AERIAL TARGETS..................         137,137         137,137
   16   OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT...........           3,318           3,318
   17   LRASM...........................          81,190         111,190
            Navy UPL: Increase to                               [30,000]
            maximum capacity............
   18   LCS OTH MISSILE.................          18,156          18,156
        MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
   19   ESSM............................          98,384          98,384
   20   HARPOON MODS....................          14,840          26,840
            Navy UPL: Increase to max                           [12,000]
            capacity....................
   21   HARM MODS.......................         187,985          74,085
            Reduce procurement due to                         [-113,900]
            test results................
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
   23   WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...           2,006           2,006
   24   FLEET SATELLITE COMM FOLLOW-ON..          66,779          66,779
        ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   25   ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......          62,008          62,008
        TORPEDOES AND RELATED EQUIP
   26   SSTD............................           6,353           6,353
   27   MK-48 TORPEDO...................          92,616         103,616
            Navy UPL: Increase to                               [11,000]
            maximum capacity............
   28   ASW TARGETS.....................          12,324          12,324
        MOD OF TORPEDOES AND RELATED
         EQUIP
   29   MK-54 TORPEDO MODS..............         105,946         105,946
   30   MK-48 TORPEDO ADCAP MODS........          40,005          40,005
   31   QUICKSTRIKE MINE................           9,758           9,758
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   32   TORPEDO SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......          79,371          79,371
   33   ASW RANGE SUPPORT...............           3,872           3,872
        DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION
   34   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION           3,726           3,726
        GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
   35   SMALL ARMS AND WEAPONS..........          15,067          15,067
        MODIFICATION OF GUNS AND GUN
         MOUNTS
   36   CIWS MODS.......................          63,318          63,318
   37   COAST GUARD WEAPONS.............          40,823          40,823
   38   GUN MOUNT MODS..................          74,618          74,618
   39   LCS MODULE WEAPONS..............          11,350           5,350
            Early to need...............                        [-6,000]
   41   AIRBORNE MINE NEUTRALIZATION              22,249          22,249
         SYSTEMS........................
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   43   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........         135,688         135,688
        TOTAL WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY.       3,702,393       3,680,493
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC
        NAVY AMMUNITION
    1   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS...........          79,871          79,871
    2   JDAM............................          87,900          87,900
    3   AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL TYPES.....         151,431         151,431
    4   MACHINE GUN AMMUNITION..........          11,344          11,344
    5   PRACTICE BOMBS..................          49,471          49,471
    6   CARTRIDGES & CART ACTUATED                56,227          56,227
         DEVICES........................
    7   AIR EXPENDABLE COUNTERMEASURES..          66,382          66,382
    8   JATOS...........................           2,907           2,907
    9   5 INCH/54 GUN AMMUNITION........          72,657          72,657
   10   INTERMEDIATE CALIBER GUN                  33,613          20,613
         AMMUNITION.....................
            Alamo LRIP ahead of testing.                       [-13,000]
   11   OTHER SHIP GUN AMMUNITION.......          42,142          42,142
   12   SMALL ARMS & LANDING PARTY AMMO.          49,888          49,888
   13   PYROTECHNIC AND DEMOLITION......          10,931          10,931
   15   AMMUNITION LESS THAN $5 MILLION.           1,106           1,106
        MARINE CORPS AMMUNITION
   19   MORTARS.........................          28,266          28,266
   21   DIRECT SUPPORT MUNITIONS........          63,664          63,664
   22   INFANTRY WEAPONS AMMUNITION.....          59,295          59,295
   26   COMBAT SUPPORT MUNITIONS........          31,577          31,577
   28   AMMO MODERNIZATION..............          15,001          15,001
   29   ARTILLERY MUNITIONS.............          86,297          86,297
   30   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......           6,239           6,239
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY        1,006,209         993,209
         & MC...........................
 
        SHIPBUILDING AND CONVERSION,
         NAVY
        FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE SHIPS
    1   OHIO REPLACEMENT SUBMARINE AP...       3,005,330       3,005,330
        OTHER WARSHIPS
    2   CARRIER REPLACEMENT PROGRAM.....       1,598,181       1,598,181
    4   VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE........       4,373,382       4,373,382
    5   VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE AP.....       2,796,401       3,046,401
            FY19-23 MYP EOQ or SIB                             [250,000]
            expansion...................
    7   CVN REFUELING OVERHAULS AP......         449,597         449,597
    8   DDG 1000........................         270,965               0
            Cost growth transfer to Line                      [-270,965]
            28..........................
    9   DDG-51..........................       5,253,327       5,225,827
            Multiyear procurement                              [-27,500]
            contract savings............
   10   DDG-51 AP.......................         391,928         641,928
            Enable greater long lead                           [250,000]
            material procurement........
   11   LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP............         646,244         576,244
            Align Plans and Other costs                        [-70,000]
            with end of production......
        AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
   12   LPD -17.........................               0         650,000
            AP for FY2020 LPD Flight II                        [650,000]
            and/or MYP EOQ..............
   13   EXPEDITIONARY SEA BASE (ESB)....         650,000         650,000
        AUXILIARIES, CRAFT AND PRIOR YR
         PROGRAM COST
   16   TAO FLEET OILER.................         977,104         977,104
   17   TAO FLEET OILER AP..............          75,046          75,046
   18   TOWING, SALVAGE, AND RESCUE SHIP          80,517          80,517
         (ATS)..........................
   20   LCU 1700........................          41,520          41,520
   21   OUTFITTING......................         634,038         562,038
            Unjustified cost growth.....                       [-72,000]
   22   SHIP TO SHORE CONNECTOR.........         325,375         325,375
   23   SERVICE CRAFT...................          72,062          97,062
            Accelerate detail design and                        [25,000]
            construction of YP-703
            Flight II...................
   24   LCAC SLEP.......................          23,321          23,321
   28   COMPLETION OF PY SHIPBUILDING            207,099         478,064
         PROGRAMS.......................
            Cost growth transfer from                          [270,965]
            Line 8......................
   29   CABLE SHIP......................               0         250,000
            Program increase............                       [250,000]
        TOTAL SHIPBUILDING AND                21,871,437      23,126,937
         CONVERSION, NAVY...............
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        SHIP PROPULSION EQUIPMENT
    1   SURFACE POWER EQUIPMENT.........          19,700          19,700
        GENERATORS
    3   SURFACE COMBATANT HM&E..........          23,495          23,495
        NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
    4   OTHER NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT......          63,330          73,330
            Accelerate ECDIS-N 9.3, 9.4,                        [10,000]
            9.5 implementation..........
        OTHER SHIPBOARD EQUIPMENT
    5   SUB PERISCOPE, IMAGING AND SUPT          178,421         178,421
         EQUIP PROG.....................
    6   DDG MOD.........................         487,999         487,999
    7   FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT..........          28,143          28,143
    8   COMMAND AND CONTROL SWITCHBOARD.           2,248           2,248
    9   LHA/LHD MIDLIFE.................          37,694          37,694
   10   POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT.....          20,883          20,883
   11   SUBMARINE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....          37,155          37,155
   12   VIRGINIA CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT          66,328          66,328
   13   LCS CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....          47,241          47,241
   14   SUBMARINE BATTERIES.............          27,987          27,987
   15   LPD CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....          65,033          65,033
   16   DDG 1000 CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT          89,700          51,300
            Procurement early to need...                       [-38,400]
   17   STRATEGIC PLATFORM SUPPORT EQUIP          22,254          22,254
   18   DSSP EQUIPMENT..................           3,629           3,629
   19   CG MODERNIZATION................         276,446         276,446
   20   LCAC............................           3,709           3,709
   21   UNDERWATER EOD PROGRAMS.........          78,807          78,807
   22   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......         126,865         101,865
            Insufficient justification                         [-25,000]
            for CVN-78 in-service
            requirements................
   23   CHEMICAL WARFARE DETECTORS......           2,966           2,966
   24   SUBMARINE LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEM...          11,968          11,968
        REACTOR PLANT EQUIPMENT
   25   REACTOR POWER UNITS.............         346,325         346,325
   26   REACTOR COMPONENTS..............         497,063         497,063
        OCEAN ENGINEERING
   27   DIVING AND SALVAGE EQUIPMENT....          10,706          10,706
        SMALL BOATS
   28   STANDARD BOATS..................          49,771          49,771
        PRODUCTION FACILITIES EQUIPMENT
   29   OPERATING FORCES IPE............         225,181         225,181
        OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
   31   LCS COMMON MISSION MODULES                46,732          46,732
         EQUIPMENT......................
   32   LCS MCM MISSION MODULES.........         124,147         152,063
            Transfer Cobra trainer from                          [8,616]
            Line 53.....................
            Transfer Knifefish and UISS                         [19,300]
            trainers from Line 52.......
   33   LCS ASW MISSION MODULES.........          57,294          39,294
            Excess procurement ahead of                        [-18,000]
            satisfactory testing........
   34   LCS SUW MISSION MODULES.........          26,006          14,506
            Excess procurement ahead of                        [-11,500]
            satisfactory testing........
   35   LCS IN-SERVICE MODERNIZATION....          70,526          70,526
        LOGISTIC SUPPORT
   36   LSD MIDLIFE & MODERNIZATION.....           4,784           4,784
        SHIP SONARS
   37   SPQ-9B RADAR....................          20,309          20,309
   38   AN/SQQ-89 SURF ASW COMBAT SYSTEM         115,459         115,459
   39   SSN ACOUSTIC EQUIPMENT..........         318,189         318,189
   40   UNDERSEA WARFARE SUPPORT                  10,134          10,134
         EQUIPMENT......................
        ASW ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   41   SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC WARFARE                23,815          23,815
         SYSTEM.........................
   42   SSTD............................          11,277           6,277
            AN/SLQ-32E contract delay...                        [-5,000]
   43   FIXED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM.......         237,780         237,780
   44   SURTASS.........................          57,872          57,872
        ELECTRONIC WARFARE EQUIPMENT
   45   AN/SLQ-32.......................         420,344         420,344
        RECONNAISSANCE EQUIPMENT
   46   SHIPBOARD IW EXPLOIT............         220,883         220,883
   47   AUTOMATED IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM            4,028           4,028
         (AIS)..........................
        OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   48   COOPERATIVE ENGAGEMENT                    44,173          38,173
         CAPABILITY.....................
            Common Array Block antenna                          [-6,000]
            program delay...............
   49   NAVAL TACTICAL COMMAND SUPPORT            10,991          10,991
         SYSTEM (NTCSS).................
   50   ATDLS...........................          34,526          34,526
   51   NAVY COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM            3,769           3,769
         (NCCS).........................
   52   MINESWEEPING SYSTEM REPLACEMENT.          35,709          16,409
            Transfer Knifefish and UISS                        [-19,300]
            trainers to Line 32.........
   53   SHALLOW WATER MCM...............           8,616               0
            Transfer Cobra trainer to                           [-8,616]
            Line 32.....................
   54   NAVSTAR GPS RECEIVERS (SPACE)...          10,703          10,703
   55   AMERICAN FORCES RADIO AND TV               2,626           2,626
         SERVICE........................
   56   STRATEGIC PLATFORM SUPPORT EQUIP           9,467           9,467
        AVIATION ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   57   ASHORE ATC EQUIPMENT............          70,849          70,849
   58   AFLOAT ATC EQUIPMENT............          47,890          47,890
   59   ID SYSTEMS......................          26,163          26,163
   60   JOINT PRECISION APPROACH AND              38,094          38,094
         LANDING SYSTEM (...............
   61   NAVAL MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS..          11,966          11,966
        OTHER SHORE ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   62   TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I SYSTEMS.....          42,010          42,010
   63   DCGS-N..........................          12,896          12,896
   64   CANES...........................         423,027         423,027
   65   RADIAC..........................           8,175           8,175
   66   CANES-INTELL....................          54,465          54,465
   67   GPETE...........................           5,985           5,985
   68   MASF............................           5,413           5,413
   69   INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM TEST                   6,251           6,251
         FACILITY.......................
   70   EMI CONTROL INSTRUMENTATION.....           4,183           4,183
   71   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......         148,350         142,950
            NGSSR installation funding                          [-5,400]
            early to need...............
        SHIPBOARD COMMUNICATIONS
   72   SHIPBOARD TACTICAL                        45,450          45,450
         COMMUNICATIONS.................
   73   SHIP COMMUNICATIONS AUTOMATION..         105,087         105,087
   74   COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS UNDER $5M..          41,123          41,123
        SUBMARINE COMMUNICATIONS
   75   SUBMARINE BROADCAST SUPPORT.....          30,897          30,897
   76   SUBMARINE COMMUNICATION                   78,580          78,580
         EQUIPMENT......................
        SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
   77   SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS          41,205          41,205
   78   NAVY MULTIBAND TERMINAL (NMT)...         113,885         113,885
        SHORE COMMUNICATIONS
   79   JOINT COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT               4,292           4,292
         ELEMENT (JCSE).................
        CRYPTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT
   80   INFO SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM            153,526         153,526
         (ISSP).........................
   81   MIO INTEL EXPLOITATION TEAM.....             951             951
        CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
   82   CRYPTOLOGIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP          14,209          17,009
            SOUTHCOM CCO Sensor (2                               [2,800]
            suites).....................
        OTHER ELECTRONIC SUPPORT
   86   COAST GUARD EQUIPMENT...........          40,713          40,713
        SONOBUOYS
   88   SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES............         177,891         213,891
            Navy UPL....................                        [36,000]
        AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   89   WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.          93,864          93,864
   90   AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......         111,724         111,724
   91   ADVANCED ARRESTING GEAR (AAG)...          11,054          11,054
   92   METEOROLOGICAL EQUIPMENT........          21,072          21,072
   93   DCRS/DPL........................             656             656
   94   AIRBORNE MINE COUNTERMEASURES...          11,299          11,299
   95   LAMPS EQUIPMENT.................             594             594
   96   AVIATION SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......          39,374          39,374
   97   UMCS-UNMAN CARRIER                        35,405          35,405
         AVIATION(UCA)MISSION CNTRL.....
        SHIP GUN SYSTEM EQUIPMENT
   98   SHIP GUN SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT......           5,337           5,337
        SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT
   99   SHIP MISSILE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT..         213,090         213,090
  100   TOMAHAWK SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......          92,890          92,890
        FBM SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  101   STRATEGIC MISSILE SYSTEMS EQUIP.         271,817         271,817
        ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  102   SSN COMBAT CONTROL SYSTEMS......         129,501         129,501
  103   ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT...........          19,436          19,436
        OTHER ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  104   EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL               14,258          14,258
         EQUIP..........................
  105   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......           5,378           5,378
        OTHER EXPENDABLE ORDNANCE
  106   SUBMARINE TRAINING DEVICE MODS..          65,543          65,543
  107   SURFACE TRAINING EQUIPMENT......         230,425         230,425
        CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT
         EQUIPMENT
  108   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....           4,867           4,867
  109   GENERAL PURPOSE TRUCKS..........           2,674           2,674
  110   CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE EQUIP          20,994          20,994
  111   FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT.........          17,189          17,189
  112   TACTICAL VEHICLES...............          19,916          19,916
  113   AMPHIBIOUS EQUIPMENT............           7,400           7,400
  114   POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT.....           2,713           2,713
  115   ITEMS UNDER $5 MILLION..........          35,540          35,540
  116   PHYSICAL SECURITY VEHICLES......           1,155           1,155
        SUPPLY SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  117   SUPPLY EQUIPMENT................          18,786          18,786
  118   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION           5,375           5,375
  119   SPECIAL PURPOSE SUPPLY SYSTEMS..         580,371         580,371
        TRAINING DEVICES
  120   TRAINING SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......           3,400           3,400
  121   TRAINING AND EDUCATION EQUIPMENT          24,283          24,283
        COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  122   COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......          66,681          66,681
  123   MEDICAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......           3,352           3,352
  125   NAVAL MIP SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....           1,984           1,984
  126   OPERATING FORCES SUPPORT                  15,131          15,131
         EQUIPMENT......................
  127   C4ISR EQUIPMENT.................           3,576           3,576
  128   ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.          31,902          31,902
  129   PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT.....         175,436         195,436
            New Navy port waterborne                            [20,000]
            security barriers increase..
  130   ENTERPRISE INFORMATION                    25,393          25,393
         TECHNOLOGY.....................
        OTHER
  133   NEXT GENERATION ENTERPRISE                96,269          96,269
         SERVICE........................
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............          15,681          15,681
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
  134   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........         326,838         326,838
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY...       9,414,355       9,373,855
 
        PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
        TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
    1   AAV7A1 PIP......................         156,249          78,149
            Unjustified investment in a                        [-78,100]
            vehicle with low/limited
            combat utility..............
    2   AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT VEHICLE 1.1...         167,478         167,478
    3   LAV PIP.........................          43,701          43,701
        ARTILLERY AND OTHER WEAPONS
    5   155MM LIGHTWEIGHT TOWED HOWITZER          47,158          47,158
    6   ARTILLERY WEAPONS SYSTEM........         134,246         134,246
    7   WEAPONS AND COMBAT VEHICLES               40,687          40,687
         UNDER $5 MILLION...............
        OTHER SUPPORT
    8   MODIFICATION KITS...............          22,904          22,904
        GUIDED MISSILES
    9   GROUND BASED AIR DEFENSE........          18,334          18,334
   10   ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-JAVELIN......           3,020           3,020
   11   FAMILY ANTI-ARMOR WEAPON SYSTEMS          13,760          13,760
         (FOAAWS).......................
   12   ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-TOW..........          59,702          59,702
        COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
   13   COMMON AVIATION COMMAND AND               35,467          35,467
         CONTROL SYSTEM (C..............
        REPAIR AND TEST EQUIPMENT
   14   REPAIR AND TEST EQUIPMENT.......          46,081          46,081
        OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
   15   MODIFICATION KITS...............             971             971
        COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (NON-
         TEL)
   16   ITEMS UNDER $5 MILLION (COMM &            69,203          69,203
         ELEC)..........................
   17   AIR OPERATIONS C2 SYSTEMS.......          14,269          14,269
        RADAR + EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
   18   RADAR SYSTEMS...................           6,694           6,694
   19   GROUND/AIR TASK ORIENTED RADAR           224,969         224,969
         (G/ATOR).......................
        INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
   21   GCSS-MC.........................           1,187           1,187
   22   FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM.............          60,189          60,189
   23   INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT..          73,848          73,848
   25   UNMANNED AIR SYSTEMS (INTEL)....           3,848           3,848
   26   DCGS-MC.........................          16,081          16,081
        OTHER SUPPORT (NON-TEL)
   30   NEXT GENERATION ENTERPRISE                87,120          87,120
         NETWORK (NGEN).................
   31   COMMON COMPUTER RESOURCES.......          68,914          68,914
   32   COMMAND POST SYSTEMS............         124,838          99,870
            Operational limitations of                         [-24,968]
            NOTM........................
   33   RADIO SYSTEMS...................         279,680         279,680
   34   COMM SWITCHING & CONTROL SYSTEMS          36,649          36,649
   35   COMM & ELEC INFRASTRUCTURE                83,971          83,971
         SUPPORT........................
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............           3,626           3,626
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
        ADMINISTRATIVE VEHICLES
   36   COMMERCIAL CARGO VEHICLES.......          25,441          25,441
        TACTICAL VEHICLES
   37   MOTOR TRANSPORT MODIFICATIONS...          11,392          11,392
   38   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE....         607,011         607,011
   39   FAMILY OF TACTICAL TRAILERS.....           2,393           2,393
   40   TRAILERS........................           6,540           6,540
        ENGINEER AND OTHER EQUIPMENT
   41   ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL EQUIP                  496             496
         ASSORT.........................
   42   TACTICAL FUEL SYSTEMS...........              54              54
   43   POWER EQUIPMENT ASSORTED........          21,062          21,062
   44   AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT....           5,290           5,290
   45   EOD SYSTEMS.....................          47,854          47,854
        MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
   46   PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT.....          28,306          28,306
        GENERAL PROPERTY
   47   FIELD MEDICAL EQUIPMENT.........          33,513          33,513
   48   TRAINING DEVICES................          52,040          41,632
            Excess to need..............                       [-10,408]
   49   FAMILY OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT          36,156          36,156
   50   FAMILY OF INTERNALLY                         606             606
         TRANSPORTABLE VEH (ITV)........
        OTHER SUPPORT
   51   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......          11,608          11,608
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   53   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........          25,804          25,804
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS.       2,860,410       2,746,934
 
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        TACTICAL FORCES
    1   F-35............................       4,261,021       4,193,521
            Program Realignment.........                       [-67,500]
    2   F-35 AP.........................         406,000         406,000
   18   O/A-X LIGHT ATTACK AIRCRAFT.....               0         350,000
            Procurement of OA-X aircraft                       [350,000]
            and long lead materials.....
        OTHER COMBAT AIRCRAFT
    3   C-135B..........................         222,176         222,176
        TACTICAL AIRLIFT
    4   KC-46A TANKER...................       2,559,911       2,312,011
            Interim contractor support..                      [-102,700]
            Restore program                                   [-145,200]
            accountability..............
        OTHER AIRLIFT
    5   C-130J..........................          35,858          35,858
    6   HC-130J.........................         129,437         129,437
    8   MC-130J.........................         770,201         770,201
    9   MC-130J AP......................         218,000         218,000
        HELICOPTERS
   11   COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER........         680,201         680,201
        MISSION SUPPORT AIRCRAFT
   13   CIVIL AIR PATROL A/C............           2,719           2,719
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   14   TARGET DRONES...................         139,053         139,053
   15   COMPASS CALL MODS...............         108,113         108,113
   17   MQ-9............................         221,707         341,707
            Increase to accelerate                             [120,000]
            Advanced Battle Management
            System......................
        STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
   19   B-2A............................          60,301          60,301
   20   B-1B............................          51,290          51,290
   21   B-52............................         105,519         100,719
            Air Force requested                                [-14,800]
            realignment.................
            LRASM certification.........                        [10,000]
        TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
   23   A-10............................          98,720         163,720
            Additional replacement wings                        [65,000]
   24   C-130J..........................          10,831          10,831
   25   F-15............................         548,109         548,109
   26   F-16............................         324,323         324,323
   27   F-22A...........................         250,710         250,710
   29   F-35 MODIFICATIONS..............         247,271         297,271
            F-35A Modifications increase                        [50,000]
   30   F-15 EPAW.......................         147,685         147,685
   31   INCREMENT 3.2B..................           9,007           9,007
   33   KC-46A TANKER...................           8,547           8,547
        AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
   34   C-5.............................          77,845          77,845
   36   C-17A...........................         102,121         102,121
   37   C-21............................          17,516          17,516
   38   C-32A...........................           4,537           4,537
   39   C-37A...........................             419             419
        TRAINER AIRCRAFT
   41   GLIDER MODS.....................             137             137
   42   T-6.............................          22,550          22,550
   43   T-1.............................          21,952          21,952
   44   T-38............................          70,623          70,623
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   45   U-2 MODS........................          48,774          48,774
   46   KC-10A (ATCA)...................          11,104          11,104
   47   C-12............................           4,900           4,900
   48   VC-25A MOD......................          36,938          36,938
   49   C-40............................             251             251
   50   C-130...........................          22,094          96,094
            T56 Series 3.5 Engine                               [74,000]
            Enhancement packages........
   51   C-130J MODS.....................         132,045         132,045
   52   C-135...........................         113,076         113,076
   53   OC-135B.........................           5,913           5,913
   54   COMPASS CALL MODS...............          49,885          49,885
   55   COMBAT FLIGHT INSPECTION (CFIN).             499             499
   56   RC-135..........................         394,532         394,532
   57   E-3.............................         133,906         133,906
   58   E-4.............................          67,858          67,858
   59   E-8.............................           9,919          34,919
            Central Computer upgrade                            [25,000]
            design......................
   60   AIRBORNE WARNING AND CNTR SYS             57,780          57,780
         (AWACS) 40/45..................
   61   FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-OF-SIGHT            14,293          14,293
         TERMINALS......................
   62   H-1.............................           2,940           2,940
   63   H-60............................          55,466          55,466
   64   RQ-4 MODS.......................          23,715          23,715
   65   HC/MC-130 MODIFICATIONS.........          37,754          37,754
   66   OTHER AIRCRAFT..................          62,010          62,010
   67   MQ-9 MODS.......................         171,548         171,548
   69   CV-22 MODS......................          60,416          60,416
        AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   70   INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR PARTS.....         956,408       1,006,408
            F-35A spares................                        [50,000]
        COMMON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   71   AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT SUPPORT              81,241          81,241
         EQUIP..........................
        POST PRODUCTION SUPPORT
   74   B-2A............................           1,763           1,763
   75   B-2B............................          35,861          35,861
   76   B-52............................          12,819          12,819
   77   C-17A...........................          10,114          10,114
   79   F-15............................           2,545           2,545
   81   F-16............................          11,718          11,718
   82   F-22A...........................          14,489          14,489
   83   OTHER AIRCRAFT..................           9,928           9,928
   84   RQ-4 POST PRODUCTION CHARGES....          40,641          40,641
        INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS
   86   INDUSTRIAL RESPONSIVENESS.......          17,378          17,378
        WAR CONSUMABLES
   88   WAR CONSUMABLES.................          29,342          29,342
        OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES
   89   OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES........       1,502,386       1,502,386
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............          28,278          28,278
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR       16,206,937      16,620,737
         FORCE..........................
 
        MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        MISSILE REPLACEMENT EQUIPMENT--
         BALLISTIC
    1   MISSILE REPLACEMENT EQ-BALLISTIC          36,786          36,786
        TACTICAL
    2   JOINT AIR-SURFACE STANDOFF               430,708         430,708
         MISSILE........................
    3   LRASM0..........................          44,185          54,385
            Restore reduction...........                        [10,200]
    4   SIDEWINDER (AIM-9X).............         121,253         121,253
    5   AMRAAM..........................         337,886         337,886
    6   PREDATOR HELLFIRE MISSILE.......         113,765         113,765
    7   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB.............         105,034         105,034
    8   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II..........         100,861          92,861
            Unit price adjustment.......                        [-8,000]
        INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
    9   INDUSTR'L PREPAREDNS/POL                     787             787
         PREVENTION.....................
        CLASS IV
   10   ICBM FUZE MOD...................          15,767          15,767
   11   ICBM FUZE MOD AP................           4,100           4,100
   12   MM III MODIFICATIONS............         129,199         129,199
   13   AGM-65D MAVERICK................             288             288
   14   AIR LAUNCH CRUISE MISSILE (ALCM)          47,632          47,632
        MISSILE SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   16   REPLEN SPARES/REPAIR PARTS......          97,481          97,481
        SPECIAL PROGRAMS
   18   SPECIAL UPDATE PROGRAMS.........         188,539         188,539
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............         895,183         895,183
        TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR         2,669,454       2,671,654
         FORCE..........................
 
        SPACE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        SPACE PROGRAMS
    1   ADVANCED EHF....................          29,829          29,829
    2   AF SATELLITE COMM SYSTEM........          35,400          35,400
    3   COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS............           1,121           1,121
    4   FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-OF-SIGHT            27,867          27,867
         TERMINALS......................
    5   WIDEBAND GAPFILLER                        61,606          61,606
         SATELLITES(SPACE)..............
    6   GENERAL INFORMATION TECH--SPACE.           3,425           3,425
    7   GPS III SPACE SEGMENT...........          69,386          69,386
    8   GLOBAL POSTIONING (SPACE).......           2,181           2,181
    9   INTEG BROADCAST SERV............          16,445          16,445
   10   SPACEBORNE EQUIP (COMSEC).......          31,895          31,895
   12   MILSATCOM.......................          11,265          11,265
   13   EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH                709,981         709,981
         CAPABILITY.....................
   14   EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH                994,555         994,555
         VEH(SPACE).....................
   15   SBIR HIGH (SPACE)...............         138,397         138,397
   17   NUDET DETECTION SYSTEM..........           7,705           7,705
   18   ROCKET SYSTEMS LAUNCH PROGRAM...          47,609          47,609
   19   SPACE FENCE.....................          51,361          51,361
   20   SPACE MODS......................         148,065         148,065
   21   SPACELIFT RANGE SYSTEM SPACE....         117,637         117,637
        SPARES
   22   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........          21,812          21,812
        TOTAL SPACE PROCUREMENT, AIR           2,527,542       2,527,542
         FORCE..........................
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR
         FORCE
        ROCKETS
    1   ROCKETS.........................         345,911         345,911
        CARTRIDGES
    2   CARTRIDGES......................         163,840         163,840
        BOMBS
    3   PRACTICE BOMBS..................          20,876          20,876
    4   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS...........         259,308         259,308
    5   MASSIVE ORDNANCE PENETRATOR               38,111          38,111
         (MOP)..........................
    6   JOINT DIRECT ATTACK MUNITION....         234,198         234,198
    7   B61.............................         109,292         109,292
    8   B61 AP..........................          52,731          52,731
        OTHER ITEMS
    9   CAD/PAD.........................          51,455          51,455
   10   EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL                6,038           6,038
         (EOD)..........................
   11   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........             524             524
   12   MODIFICATIONS...................           1,270           1,270
   13   ITEMS LESS THAN $5,000,000......           4,604           4,604
        FLARES
   15   FLARES..........................         125,286         125,286
        FUZES
   16   FUZES...........................         109,358         109,358
        SMALL ARMS
   17   SMALL ARMS......................          64,502          64,502
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,       1,587,304       1,587,304
         AIR FORCE......................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
    1   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....           6,949           6,949
        CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES
    2   MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLE.........          36,002          36,002
    3   CAP VEHICLES....................           1,022           1,022
    4   CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES......          42,696          49,879
            Procurement of 7 DABs for                            [7,183]
            PACOM.......................
        SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES
    5   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE....          30,145          30,145
    6   SECURITY AND TACTICAL VEHICLES..           1,230           3,903
            Procurement of 7 DABs for                            [2,673]
            PACOM.......................
    7   SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES........          43,003          53,693
            Procurement of 7 DABs for                           [10,690]
            PACOM.......................
        FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
    8   FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH RESCUE                23,328          32,308
         VEHICLES.......................
            Procurement of 7 DABs for                            [8,980]
            PACOM.......................
        MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
    9   MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLES.....          11,537          31,309
            Procurement of 7 DABs for                           [19,772]
            PACOM.......................
        BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
   10   RUNWAY SNOW REMOV AND CLEANING            37,600          40,353
         EQU............................
            Procurement of 7 DABs for                            [2,753]
            PACOM.......................
   11   BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT                 104,923         104,923
         VEHICLES.......................
        COMM SECURITY EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
   12   COMSEC EQUIPMENT................         114,372         114,372
        INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
   13   INTERNATIONAL INTEL TECH &                 8,290           8,290
         ARCHITECTURES..................
   14   INTELLIGENCE TRAINING EQUIPMENT.           2,099           2,099
   15   INTELLIGENCE COMM EQUIPMENT.....          37,415          37,415
        ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
   16   AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL & LANDING             57,937          57,937
         SYS............................
   18   BATTLE CONTROL SYSTEM--FIXED....           3,012           3,012
   19   THEATER AIR CONTROL SYS                   19,989          19,989
         IMPROVEMEN.....................
   20   WEATHER OBSERVATION FORECAST....          45,020          45,020
   21   STRATEGIC COMMAND AND CONTROL...          32,836          32,836
   22   CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN COMPLEX.......          12,454          12,454
   23   MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS........          14,263          14,263
   25   INTEGRATED STRAT PLAN & ANALY              7,769           7,769
         NETWORK (ISPAN)................
        SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS PROJECTS
   26   GENERAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY..          40,450          40,450
   27   AF GLOBAL COMMAND & CONTROL SYS.           6,619           6,619
   28   MOBILITY COMMAND AND CONTROL....          10,192          10,192
   29   AIR FORCE PHYSICAL SECURITY              159,313         161,315
         SYSTEM.........................
            Procurement of 7 DABs for                            [2,002]
            PACOM.......................
   30   COMBAT TRAINING RANGES..........         132,675         132,675
   31   MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY COMM         140,875         140,875
         N..............................
   32   WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE (WAS)....          92,104          92,104
   33   C3 COUNTERMEASURES..............          45,152          45,152
   34   GCSS-AF FOS.....................             483             483
   35   DEFENSE ENTERPRISE ACCOUNTING &              802             802
         MGT SYS........................
   36   MAINTENANCE REPAIR & OVERHAUL             12,207          12,207
         INITIATIVE.....................
   37   THEATER BATTLE MGT C2 SYSTEM....           7,644           7,644
   38   AIR & SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER             40,066          40,066
         (AOC)..........................
        AIR FORCE COMMUNICATIONS
   41   BASE INFORMATION TRANSPT INFRAST          22,357          22,357
         (BITI) WIRED...................
   42   AFNET...........................         102,836         102,836
   43   JOINT COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT               3,145           3,145
         ELEMENT (JCSE).................
   44   USCENTCOM.......................          13,194          13,194
        ORGANIZATION AND BASE
   45   TACTICAL C-E EQUIPMENT..........         161,231         161,231
   47   RADIO EQUIPMENT.................          12,142          12,142
   48   CCTV/AUDIOVISUAL EQUIPMENT......           6,505           6,505
   49   BASE COMM INFRASTRUCTURE........         169,404         169,404
        MODIFICATIONS
   50   COMM ELECT MODS.................          10,654          10,654
        PERSONAL SAFETY & RESCUE EQUIP
   51   PERSONAL SAFETY AND RESCUE                51,906          51,906
         EQUIPMENT......................
        DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS HANDLING EQ
   52   MECHANIZED MATERIAL HANDLING              88,298          88,298
         EQUIP..........................
        BASE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   53   BASE PROCURED EQUIPMENT.........          17,031          17,031
   54   ENGINEERING AND EOD EQUIPMENT...          82,635          82,635
   55   MOBILITY EQUIPMENT..............           9,549           9,549
   56   BASE MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT              24,005          48,048
         EQUIPMENT......................
            Procurement of 7 DABs for                           [24,043]
            PACOM.......................
        SPECIAL SUPPORT PROJECTS
   58   DARP RC135......................          26,262          26,262
   59   DCGS-AF.........................         448,290         448,290
   61   SPECIAL UPDATE PROGRAM..........         913,813         913,813
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............      17,258,069      17,258,069
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   63   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........          86,365          86,365
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR          20,890,164      20,968,260
         FORCE..........................
 
        PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD
   43   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD............          35,295          35,295
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, NSA
   42   INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY               5,403           5,403
         PROGRAM (ISSP).................
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
   46   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS............             497             497
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
    7   INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY....          21,590          41,590
            Sharkseer...................                        [20,000]
    8   TELEPORT PROGRAM................          33,905          33,905
    9   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......          27,886          27,886
   10   NET CENTRIC ENTERPRISE SERVICES            1,017           1,017
         (NCES).........................
   11   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM               150,674         150,674
         NETWORK........................
   13   WHITE HOUSE COMMUNICATION AGENCY          94,610          94,610
   14   SENIOR LEADERSHIP ENTERPRISE....         197,246         197,246
   15   JOINT REGIONAL SECURITY STACKS           140,338         140,338
         (JRSS).........................
   16   JOINT SERVICE PROVIDER..........         107,182          87,682
            General reduction...........                       [-19,500]
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
   18   MAJOR EQUIPMENT.................           5,225           5,225
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DSS
   21   MAJOR EQUIPMENT.................           1,196           1,196
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCAA
    1   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......           2,542           2,542
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
   44   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS............           4,360           4,360
   45   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS--CE2T2.....             904             904
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, MISSILE DEFENSE
         AGENCY
   26   THAAD...........................         874,068         874,068
   27   GROUND BASED MIDCOURSE..........         409,000         409,000
   28   GROUND BASED MIDCOURSE AP.......         115,000         115,000
   29   AEGIS BMD.......................         593,488         593,488
   30   AEGIS BMD AP....................         115,206         115,206
   31   BMDS AN/TPY-2 RADARS............          13,185          13,185
   32   ISRAELI PROGRAMS................          80,000          80,000
   33   SHORT RANGE BALLISTIC MISSILE             50,000          50,000
         DEFENSE (SRBMD)................
   34   AEGIS ASHORE PHASE III..........          15,000          15,000
   35   IRON DOME.......................          70,000          70,000
   36   AEGIS BMD HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE.          97,057          97,057
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DHRA
    3   PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION........          10,630          10,630
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE THREAT
         REDUCTION AGENCY
   23   VEHICLES........................             207             207
   24   OTHER MAJOR EQUIPMENT...........           5,592           5,592
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DODEA
   20   AUTOMATION/EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT &           1,723           1,723
         LOGISTICS......................
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCMA
    2   MAJOR EQUIPMENT.................           3,873           3,873
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DMACT
   19   MAJOR EQUIPMENT.................          13,106          13,106
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............         589,691         589,691
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
        AVIATION PROGRAMS
   50   ROTARY WING UPGRADES AND                 148,351         148,351
         SUSTAINMENT....................
   51   UNMANNED ISR....................          57,708          57,708
   52   NON-STANDARD AVIATION...........          18,731          18,731
   53   U-28............................          32,301          32,301
   54   MH-47 CHINOOK...................         131,033         131,033
   55   CV-22 MODIFICATION..............          32,529          32,529
   56   MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE....          24,621          24,621
   57   PRECISION STRIKE PACKAGE........         226,965         226,965
   58   AC/MC-130J......................         165,813         165,813
   59   C-130 MODIFICATIONS.............          80,274          80,274
        SHIPBUILDING
   60   UNDERWATER SYSTEMS..............         136,723         136,723
        AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
   61   ORDNANCE ITEMS &lt;$5M.............         357,742         357,742
        OTHER PROCUREMENT PROGRAMS
   62   INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS............          85,699          85,699
   63   DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/                17,863          17,863
         SURFACE SYSTEMS................
   64   OTHER ITEMS &lt;$5M................         112,117         112,117
   65   COMBATANT CRAFT SYSTEMS.........           7,313           7,313
   66   SPECIAL PROGRAMS................          14,026          14,026
   67   TACTICAL VEHICLES...............          88,608          88,608
   68   WARRIOR SYSTEMS &lt;$5M............         438,590         438,590
   69   COMBAT MISSION REQUIREMENTS.....          19,408          19,408
   70   GLOBAL VIDEO SURVEILLANCE                  6,281           6,281
         ACTIVITIES.....................
   71   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS                  18,509          18,509
         INTELLIGENCE...................
   73   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS........         367,433         367,433
        CBDP
   74   CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL SITUATIONAL          166,418         166,418
         AWARENESS......................
   75   CB PROTECTION & HAZARD                   144,519         144,519
         MITIGATION.....................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE.       6,786,271       6,786,771
 
        JOINT URGENT OPERATIONAL NEEDS
         FUND
        JOINT URGENT OPERATIONAL NEEDS
         FUND
    1   JOINT URGENT OPERATIONAL NEEDS           100,025         100,025
         FUND...........................
        TOTAL JOINT URGENT OPERATIONAL           100,025         100,025
         NEEDS FUND.....................
 
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT...............     130,526,043     131,998,763
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2019         Senate
 Line                 Item                    Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        FIXED WING
    3   MQ-1 UAV........................          60,000          60,000
        ROTARY
   11   UH-60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP)...          21,246          21,246
   14   CH-47 HELICOPTER................          25,000          25,000
        MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
   17   MQ-1 PAYLOAD (MIP)..............          11,400          11,400
   19   GRAY EAGLE MODS2................          32,000          32,000
   20   MULTI SENSOR ABN RECON (MIP)....          51,000          51,000
   32   RQ-7 UAV MODS...................          50,868          50,868
   33   UAS MODS........................           3,402           3,402
        GROUND SUPPORT AVIONICS
   36   CMWS............................          84,387          84,387
   37   COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES           24,060          24,060
         (CIRCM)........................
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY         363,363         363,363
 
        MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE SYSTEM
    2   MSE MISSILE.....................         260,000         260,000
        AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILE SYSTEM
    5   HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY............         255,040         255,040
        ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT MISSILE SYS
    8   JAVELIN (AAWS-M) SYSTEM SUMMARY.          31,120          31,120
   11   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)......         624,500         624,500
   13   HIGH MOBILITY ARTILLERY ROCKET           171,138         171,138
         SYSTEM (HIMARS.................
   14   LETHAL MINIATURE AERIAL MISSILE          112,973         112,973
         SYSTEM (LMAMS..................
        MODIFICATIONS
   16   ATACMS MODS.....................         225,580         225,580
   21   MLRS MODS.......................         122,000         122,000
        TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY.       1,802,351       1,802,351
 
        PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY
        TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
    1   BRADLEY PROGRAM.................         205,000         205,000
    2   ARMORED MULTI PURPOSE VEHICLE            230,359         230,359
         (AMPV).........................
        MODIFICATION OF TRACKED COMBAT
         VEHICLES
    6   BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD)...........          50,000          50,000
    8   PALADIN INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT             67,000          67,000
         (PIM)..........................
    9   IMPROVED RECOVERY VEHICLE (M88A2          42,354          42,354
         HERCULES)......................
   14   M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD)............          34,000          34,000
   15   ABRAMS UPGRADE PROGRAM..........         455,000         455,000
        WEAPONS & OTHER COMBAT VEHICLES
   18   M240 MEDIUM MACHINE GUN (7.62MM)             126             126
   22   MORTAR SYSTEMS..................          11,842          11,842
   25   CARBINE.........................           1,800           1,800
   27   COMMON REMOTELY OPERATED WEAPONS           3,378           3,378
         STATION........................
        MOD OF WEAPONS AND OTHER COMBAT
         VEH
   32   M2 50 CAL MACHINE GUN MODS......           4,920           4,920
   34   M240 MEDIUM MACHINE GUN MODS....               7               7
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
   39   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (WOCV-               1,397           1,397
         WTCV)..........................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY       1,107,183       1,107,183
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY
        SMALL/MEDIUM CAL AMMUNITION
    1   CTG, 5.56MM, ALL TYPES..........           3,392           3,392
    2   CTG, 7.62MM, ALL TYPES..........              40              40
    3   CTG, HANDGUN, ALL TYPES.........              17              17
    4   CTG, .50 CAL, ALL TYPES.........             189             189
    5   CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES............           1,605           1,605
    7   CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES............          25,000          25,000
        MORTAR AMMUNITION
    9   60MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES..........             218             218
   10   81MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES..........             484             484
        ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
   14   ARTILLERY PROJECTILE, 155MM, ALL          79,400          79,400
         TYPES..........................
   15   PROJ 155MM EXTENDED RANGE M982..          72,985          72,985
   16   ARTILLERY PROPELLANTS, FUZES AND          63,900          63,900
         PRIMERS, ALL...................
        ROCKETS
   18   SHOULDER LAUNCHED MUNITIONS, ALL          22,242          22,242
         TYPES..........................
   19   ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL TYPES.....          39,974          39,974
        OTHER AMMUNITION
   21   DEMOLITION MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.               5               5
   22   GRENADES, ALL TYPES.............               8               8
        MISCELLANEOUS
   27   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION                    66              66
         (AMMO).........................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,         309,525         309,525
         ARMY...........................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        TACTICAL VEHICLES
    2   SEMITRAILERS, FLATBED:..........           8,000           8,000
    3   AMBULANCE, 4 LITTER, 5/4 TON,             20,770          20,770
         4X4............................
   10   FAMILY OF HEAVY TACTICAL                 115,400         115,400
         VEHICLES (FHTV)................
   12   HVY EXPANDED MOBILE TACTICAL               6,682           6,682
         TRUCK EXT SERV.................
   13   TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLE                  50,000          50,000
         PROTECTION KITS................
   14   MODIFICATION OF IN SVC EQUIP....         186,377         186,377
        COMM--SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
   28   TRANSPORTABLE TACTICAL COMMAND             7,100           7,100
         COMMUNICATIONS.................
        COMM--COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS
   37   JOINT TACTICAL RADIO SYSTEM.....           1,560           1,560
   42   TRACTOR RIDE....................          13,190          13,190
   45   TACTICAL COMMUNICATIONS AND                9,549           9,549
         PROTECTIVE SYSTEM..............
   47   COTS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT...          22,000          22,000
        COMM--INTELLIGENCE COMM
   50   CI AUTOMATION ARCHITECTURE (MIP)           9,800           9,800
        INFORMATION SECURITY
   55   COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY (COMSEC)               3               3
        COMM--LONG HAUL COMMUNICATIONS
   59   BASE SUPPORT COMMUNICATIONS.....             690             690
        COMM--BASE COMMUNICATIONS
   60   INFORMATION SYSTEMS.............           8,750           8,750
   63   INSTALLATION INFO INFRASTRUCTURE          60,337          60,337
         MOD PROGRAM....................
        ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT REL ACT
         (TIARA)
   68   DCGS-A (MIP)....................          37,806          37,806
   70   TROJAN (MIP)....................           6,926           6,926
   71   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (INTEL SPT)            2,011           2,011
         (MIP)..........................
   75   BIOMETRIC TACTICAL COLLECTION              5,370           5,370
         DEVICES (MIP)..................
        ELECT EQUIP--ELECTRONIC WARFARE
         (EW)
   80   CREW............................          42,651          42,651
   81   FAMILY OF PERSISTENT                      20,050          20,050
         SURVEILLANCE CAP. (MIP)........
   82   COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/SECURITY              12,974          12,974
         COUNTERMEASURES................
        ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL SURV. (TAC
         SURV)
   85   NIGHT VISION DEVICES............             463             463
   86   LONG RANGE ADVANCED SCOUT                  2,861           2,861
         SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM............
   87   SMALL TACTICAL OPTICAL RIFLE                  60              60
         MOUNTED MLRF...................
   88   RADIATION MONITORING SYSTEMS....              11              11
   90   INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION FAMILY          251,062         251,062
         OF SYSTEMS.....................
   91   FAMILY OF WEAPON SIGHTS (FWS)...             525             525
   94   JOINT BATTLE COMMAND--PLATFORM            26,146          26,146
         (JBC-P)........................
   96   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (LLDR)......           4,050           4,050
   97   COMPUTER BALLISTICS: LHMBC XM32.             960             960
   98   MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEM......           7,660           7,660
   99   COUNTERFIRE RADARS..............         165,200         165,200
        ELECT EQUIP--AUTOMATION
  112   AUTOMATED DATA PROCESSING EQUIP.          28,475          28,475
        CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE EQUIPMENT
  121   PROTECTIVE SYSTEMS..............              27              27
  122   FAMILY OF NON-LETHAL EQUIPMENT            20,200          20,200
         (FNLE).........................
  123   BASE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (BDS)......          39,200          39,200
  124   CBRN DEFENSE....................           2,317           2,317
        ENGINEER (NON-CONSTRUCTION)
         EQUIPMENT
  129   GRND STANDOFF MINE DETECTN SYSM           16,000          16,000
         (GSTAMIDS).....................
  130   AREA MINE DETECTION SYSTEM                     1               1
         (AMDS).........................
  132   ROBOTIC COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM              4,850           4,850
         (RCSS).........................
  136   REMOTE DEMOLITION SYSTEMS.......               1               1
        COMBAT SERVICE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  139   HEATERS AND ECU'S...............             270             270
  141   PERSONNEL RECOVERY SUPPORT                 4,300           4,300
         SYSTEM (PRSS)..................
  142   GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM...........           1,725           1,725
  144   FORCE PROVIDER..................          55,800          55,800
  145   FIELD FEEDING EQUIPMENT.........           1,035           1,035
  146   CARGO AERIAL DEL & PERSONNEL               1,980           1,980
         PARACHUTE SYSTEM...............
        MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
  151   COMBAT SUPPORT MEDICAL..........          17,527          17,527
        MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
  153   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (MAINT EQ)             268             268
        CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
  159   HIGH MOBILITY ENGINEER EXCAVATOR          25,700          25,700
         (HMEE).........................
        GENERATORS
  165   GENERATORS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIP.             569             569
        TEST MEASURE AND DIG EQUIPMENT
         (TMD)
  174   INTEGRATED FAMILY OF TEST                  9,495           9,495
         EQUIPMENT (IFTE)...............
        OTHER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  176   M25 STABILIZED BINOCULAR........              33              33
  177   RAPID EQUIPPING SOLDIER SUPPORT           18,000          18,000
         EQUIPMENT......................
  178   PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEMS (OPA3)           6,000           6,000
  179   BASE LEVEL COMMON EQUIPMENT.....           2,080           2,080
  180   MODIFICATION OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT          19,200          19,200
         (OPA-3)........................
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY...       1,382,047       1,382,047
 
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   25   STUASL0 UAV.....................          35,065          35,065
        MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
   32   SH-60 SERIES....................           4,858           4,858
   34   EP-3 SERIES.....................           5,380           5,380
   44   SPECIAL PROJECT AIRCRAFT........           2,165           2,165
   49   COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT............           9,820           9,820
   51   COMMON DEFENSIVE WEAPON SYSTEM..           3,206           3,206
   61   QRC.............................           2,410           2,410
   63   RQ-21 SERIES....................          17,215          17,215
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY          80,119          80,119
 
        WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        STRATEGIC MISSILES
    3   TOMAHAWK........................                          82,800
            Buy-back Tomahawk...........                        [82,800]
        TACTICAL MISSILES
    4   AMRAAM..........................           1,183           1,183
    5   SIDEWINDER......................             381             381
   12   HELLFIRE........................           1,530           1,530
   15   AERIAL TARGETS..................           6,500           6,500
        GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
   35   SMALL ARMS AND WEAPONS..........           1,540           1,540
        MODIFICATION OF GUNS AND GUN
         MOUNTS
   38   GUN MOUNT MODS..................           3,000           3,000
        TOTAL WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY.          14,134          96,934
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC
        NAVY AMMUNITION
    1   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS...........          62,530          62,530
    2   JDAM............................          93,019          93,019
    3   AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL TYPES.....           2,163           2,163
    4   MACHINE GUN AMMUNITION..........           5,000           5,000
    6   CARTRIDGES & CART ACTUATED                 5,334           5,334
         DEVICES........................
    7   AIR EXPENDABLE COUNTERMEASURES..          36,580          36,580
    8   JATOS...........................             747             747
   11   OTHER SHIP GUN AMMUNITION.......           2,538           2,538
   13   PYROTECHNIC AND DEMOLITION......           1,807           1,807
   15   AMMUNITION LESS THAN $5 MILLION.           2,229             229
            Excess balances.............                        [-2,000]
        MARINE CORPS AMMUNITION
   19   MORTARS.........................           2,018           2,018
   21   DIRECT SUPPORT MUNITIONS........             632             632
   22   INFANTRY WEAPONS AMMUNITION.....             779             779
   26   COMBAT SUPPORT MUNITIONS........             164             164
   29   ARTILLERY MUNITIONS.............          31,001          31,001
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY          246,541         244,541
         & MC...........................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        OTHER SHIPBOARD EQUIPMENT
   21   UNDERWATER EOD PROGRAMS.........           9,200           9,200
        SMALL BOATS
   28   STANDARD BOATS..................          19,060          19,060
        ASW ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   43   FIXED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM.......          56,950          56,950
        SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
   77   SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS           3,200           3,200
        CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
   82   CRYPTOLOGIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP           2,000           2,000
        SONOBUOYS
   88   SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES............          21,156          21,156
        OTHER ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  104   EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL               33,580          33,580
         EQUIP..........................
        CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT
         EQUIPMENT
  108   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....             170             170
  109   GENERAL PURPOSE TRUCKS..........             400             400
  111   FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT.........             770             770
  112   TACTICAL VEHICLES...............           7,298           7,298
        SUPPLY SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  118   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION             500             500
        COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  123   MEDICAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......           6,500           6,500
  128   ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.           2,200           2,200
  129   PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT.....          19,389          19,389
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............           4,800           4,800
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY...         187,173         187,173
 
        PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
        INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
   22   FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM.............           5,583           5,583
        TACTICAL VEHICLES
   37   MOTOR TRANSPORT MODIFICATIONS...          44,440          44,440
        ENGINEER AND OTHER EQUIPMENT
   45   EOD SYSTEMS.....................           8,000           8,000
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS.          58,023          58,023
 
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        OTHER AIRLIFT
    6   HC-130J.........................         100,000         100,000
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   17   MQ-9............................         339,740         339,740
   18   RQ-20B PUMA.....................          13,500          13,500
        STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
   20   B-1B............................           4,000           4,000
   22   LARGE AIRCRAFT INFRARED                  149,778         149,778
         COUNTERMEASURES................
        TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
   23   A-10............................          10,350          10,350
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   45   U-2 MODS........................           7,900           7,900
   54   COMPASS CALL MODS...............          36,400          36,400
   59   E-8.............................          13,000          13,000
   63   H-60............................          40,560          40,560
   65   HC/MC-130 MODIFICATIONS.........          87,900          87,900
   66   OTHER AIRCRAFT..................          53,731          53,731
   68   MQ-9 UAS PAYLOADS...............          16,000          16,000
        AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   70   INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR PARTS.....          91,500          91,500
        COMMON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   71   AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT SUPPORT              32,529          32,529
         EQUIP..........................
   72   OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES........          22,000          22,000
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR        1,018,888       1,018,888
         FORCE..........................
 
        MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        TACTICAL
    2   JOINT AIR-SURFACE STANDOFF                61,600          84,400
         MISSILE........................
            Buy-back JASSM-ER...........                        [22,800]
    5   AMRAAM..........................           2,600           2,600
    6   PREDATOR HELLFIRE MISSILE.......         255,000         255,000
    7   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB.............         140,724         140,724
        CLASS IV
   13   AGM-65D MAVERICK................          33,602          33,602
        TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR           493,526         516,326
         FORCE..........................
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR
         FORCE
        CARTRIDGES
    2   CARTRIDGES......................          29,587          29,587
        BOMBS
    4   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS...........         551,862         551,862
    6   JOINT DIRECT ATTACK MUNITION....         738,451         738,451
        FLARES
   15   FLARES..........................          12,116          12,116
        FUZES
   16   FUZES...........................          81,000          81,000
        SMALL ARMS
   17   SMALL ARMS......................           8,500           8,500
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,       1,421,516       1,421,516
         AIR FORCE......................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
    1   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....           9,680           9,680
        CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES
    2   MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLE.........           9,680           9,680
    4   CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES......          19,680          19,680
        SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES
    6   SECURITY AND TACTICAL VEHICLES..          24,880          24,880
    7   SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES........          34,680          34,680
        FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
    8   FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH RESCUE                 9,736           9,736
         VEHICLES.......................
        MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
    9   MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLES.....          24,680          24,680
        BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
   10   RUNWAY SNOW REMOV AND CLEANING             9,680           9,680
         EQU............................
   11   BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT                   9,680           9,680
         VEHICLES.......................
        INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
   15   INTELLIGENCE COMM EQUIPMENT.....           6,156           6,156
        ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
   16   AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL & LANDING             56,884          56,884
         SYS............................
        SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS PROJECTS
   29   AIR FORCE PHYSICAL SECURITY               46,236          46,236
         SYSTEM.........................
   37   THEATER BATTLE MGT C2 SYSTEM....           2,500           2,500
        ORGANIZATION AND BASE
   45   TACTICAL C-E EQUIPMENT..........          27,911          27,911
        PERSONAL SAFETY & RESCUE EQUIP
   51   PERSONAL SAFETY AND RESCUE                13,600          13,600
         EQUIPMENT......................
        BASE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   53   BASE PROCURED EQUIPMENT.........          28,800          28,800
   54   ENGINEERING AND EOD EQUIPMENT...          53,500          53,500
   55   MOBILITY EQUIPMENT..............          78,562          78,562
   56   BASE MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT              28,055          28,055
         EQUIPMENT......................
        SPECIAL SUPPORT PROJECTS
   59   DCGS-AF.........................           2,000           2,000
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............       3,229,364       3,229,364
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR           3,725,944       3,725,944
         FORCE..........................
 
        PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
    8   TELEPORT PROGRAM................           3,800           3,800
   17   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS               12,000          12,000
         NETWORK........................
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE THREAT
         REDUCTION AGENCY
   25   COUNTER IED & IMPROVISED THREAT            5,534           5,534
         TECHNOLOGIES...................
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............          41,559          41,559
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
        AVIATION PROGRAMS
   47   MANNED ISR......................           5,000           5,000
   48   MC-12...........................           5,000           5,000
   49   MH-60 BLACKHAWK.................          27,600          27,600
   51   UNMANNED ISR....................          17,000          17,000
   52   NON-STANDARD AVIATION...........          13,000          13,000
   53   U-28............................          51,722          51,722
   54   MH-47 CHINOOK...................          36,500          36,500
        AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
   61   ORDNANCE ITEMS &lt;$5M.............         100,850         100,850
        OTHER PROCUREMENT PROGRAMS
   62   INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS............          16,500          16,500
   64   OTHER ITEMS &lt;$5M................           7,700           7,700
   67   TACTICAL VEHICLES...............          59,891          59,891
   68   WARRIOR SYSTEMS &lt;$5M............          21,135          21,135
   69   COMBAT MISSION REQUIREMENTS.....          10,000          10,000
   71   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS                  10,805          10,805
         INTELLIGENCE...................
   73   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS........         126,539         126,539
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE.         572,135         572,135
 
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT...............      12,782,468      12,886,068
------------------------------------------------------------------------

        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION (In Thousands of
                                Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Program                          FY 2019         Senate
  Line       Element           Item           Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ..............  RESEARCH,
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          ARMY
         ..............  BASIC RESEARCH
    1    0601101A        IN-HOUSE                 11,585          11,585
                          LABORATORY
                          INDEPENDENT
                          RESEARCH.
    2    0601102A        DEFENSE                 276,912         289,412
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCES.
         ..............      Basic                               [7,500]
                             research
                             increase.
         ..............      Quantum                             [5,000]
                             information
                             sciences.
    3    0601103A        UNIVERSITY               65,283          65,283
                          RESEARCH
                          INITIATIVES.
    4    0601104A        UNIVERSITY AND           92,115          97,115
                          INDUSTRY
                          RESEARCH
                          CENTERS.
         ..............      Basic                               [5,000]
                             research
                             program
                             increase.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL BASIC          445,895         463,395
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
    5    0602105A        MATERIALS                28,600          28,600
                          TECHNOLOGY.
    6    0602120A        SENSORS AND              32,366          37,366
                          ELECTRONIC
                          SURVIVABILITY.
         ..............      Program                             [5,000]
                             increase.
    7    0602122A        TRACTOR HIP....           8,674           8,674
    8    0602126A        TRACTOR JACK...             400             400
    9    0602211A        AVIATION                 64,847          59,847
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Mission                            [-5,000]
                             systems /
                             engine and
                             drives
                             coordinatio
                             n.
   10    0602270A        ELECTRONIC               25,571          25,571
                          WARFARE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   11    0602303A        MISSILE                  50,183          50,183
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   12    0602307A        ADVANCED                 29,502          29,502
                          WEAPONS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   13    0602308A        ADVANCED                 28,500          38,500
                          CONCEPTS AND
                          SIMULATION.
         ..............      Pilot for                          [10,000]
                             cyber
                             modeling
                             and
                             simulation.
   14    0602601A        COMBAT VEHICLE           70,450          70,450
                          AND AUTOMOTIVE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   15    0602618A        BALLISTICS               75,541          75,541
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   16    0602622A        CHEMICAL, SMOKE           5,032           5,032
                          AND EQUIPMENT
                          DEFEATING
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   17    0602623A        JOINT SERVICE            12,394          12,394
                          SMALL ARMS
                          PROGRAM.
   18    0602624A        WEAPONS AND              40,444          42,944
                          MUNITIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Advanced                            [2,500]
                             warheads
                             technology.
   19    0602705A        ELECTRONICS AND          58,283          58,283
                          ELECTRONIC
                          DEVICES.
   20    0602709A        NIGHT VISION             29,582          29,582
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   21    0602712A        COUNTERMINE              21,244          21,244
                          SYSTEMS.
   22    0602716A        HUMAN FACTORS            24,131          26,631
                          ENGINEERING
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      General                             [2,500]
                             program
                             increase.
   23    0602720A        ENVIRONMENTAL            13,242          13,242
                          QUALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   24    0602782A        COMMAND,                 55,003          50,003
                          CONTROL,
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      General                            [-5,000]
                             Program
                             Reduction.
   25    0602783A        COMPUTER AND             14,958          14,958
                          SOFTWARE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   26    0602784A        MILITARY                 78,159          78,159
                          ENGINEERING
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   27    0602785A        MANPOWER/                21,862          21,862
                          PERSONNEL/
                          TRAINING
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   28    0602786A        WARFIGHTER               40,566          40,566
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   29    0602787A        MEDICAL                  90,075          90,075
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                919,609         929,609
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
   30    0603001A        WARFIGHTER               39,338          39,338
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   31    0603002A        MEDICAL                  62,496          62,496
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   32    0603003A        AVIATION                124,958         119,958
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Platform                           [-5,000]
                             design and
                             structures
                             systems.
   33    0603004A        WEAPONS AND             102,686         122,686
                          MUNITIONS
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Accelerate                         [20,000]
                             ERCA gun.
   34    0603005A        COMBAT VEHICLE          119,739         192,239
                          AND AUTOMOTIVE
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Modular                             [2,500]
                             scalable
                             powertrain.
         ..............      Prototype                          [70,000]
                             Next
                             Generation
                             Combat
                             Vehicle.
   35    0603006A        SPACE                    13,000          13,000
                          APPLICATION
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   36    0603007A        MANPOWER,                 8,044           8,044
                          PERSONNEL AND
                          TRAINING
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   37    0603009A        TRACTOR HIKE...          22,631          22,631
   38    0603015A        NEXT GENERATION          25,682          25,682
                          TRAINING &
                          SIMULATION
                          SYSTEMS.
   40    0603125A        COMBATING                 3,762           3,762
                          TERRORISM--TEC
                          HNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   41    0603130A        TRACTOR NAIL...           4,896           4,896
   42    0603131A        TRACTOR EGGS...           6,041           6,041
   43    0603270A        ELECTRONIC               31,491          31,491
                          WARFARE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   44    0603313A        MISSILE AND              61,132          61,132
                          ROCKET
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   45    0603322A        TRACTOR CAGE...          16,845          16,845
   46    0603461A        HIGH                    183,322         188,322
                          PERFORMANCE
                          COMPUTING
                          MODERNIZATION
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Program                             [5,000]
                             increase.
   47    0603606A        LANDMINE                 11,104          11,104
                          WARFARE AND
                          BARRIER
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   48    0603607A        JOINT SERVICE             5,885           5,885
                          SMALL ARMS
                          PROGRAM.
   49    0603710A        NIGHT VISION             61,376          61,376
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   50    0603728A        ENVIRONMENTAL             9,136           9,136
                          QUALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEMONSTRATIONS.
   51    0603734A        MILITARY                 25,864          38,864
                          ENGINEERING
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Minor                               [8,000]
                             MILCON.
         ..............      Program                             [5,000]
                             increase.
   52    0603772A        ADVANCED                 34,883          37,383
                          TACTICAL
                          COMPUTER
                          SCIENCE AND
                          SENSOR
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      PNT                                 [2,500]
                             research.
   53    0603794A        C3 ADVANCED              52,387          47,387
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      General                            [-5,000]
                             program
                             decrease.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,026,698       1,129,698
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES
   54    0603305A        ARMY MISSLE              10,777          10,777
                          DEFENSE
                          SYSTEMS
                          INTEGRATION.
   56    0603327A        AIR AND MISSILE          42,802          42,802
                          DEFENSE
                          SYSTEMS
                          ENGINEERING.
   57    0603619A        LANDMINE                 45,254          45,254
                          WARFARE AND
                          BARRIER--ADV
                          DEV.
   58    0603627A        SMOKE,                   22,700          22,700
                          OBSCURANT AND
                          TARGET
                          DEFEATING SYS-
                          ADV DEV.
   59    0603639A        TANK AND MEDIUM          41,974          55,974
                          CALIBER
                          AMMUNITION.
         ..............      Army UPL:                          [14,000]
                             Test and
                             evaluation
                             of M999
                             155mm.
   60    0603645A        ARMORED SYSTEM          119,395         119,395
                          MODERNIZATION-
                          -ADV DEV.
   61    0603747A        SOLDIER SUPPORT           8,746           8,746
                          AND
                          SURVIVABILITY.
   62    0603766A        TACTICAL                 35,667          43,667
                          ELECTRONIC
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM--ADV
                          DEV.
         ..............      ISR                                 [8,000]
                             capabilitie
                             s to
                             support
                             long range
                             field
                             artillery.
   63    0603774A        NIGHT VISION              7,350           7,350
                          SYSTEMS
                          ADVANCED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   64    0603779A        ENVIRONMENTAL            14,749          14,749
                          QUALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY--DE
                          M/VAL.
   65    0603790A        NATO RESEARCH             3,687           3,687
                          AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   66    0603801A        AVIATION--ADV            10,793          10,793
                          DEV.
   67    0603804A        LOGISTICS AND            14,248          14,248
                          ENGINEER
                          EQUIPMENT--ADV
                          DEV.
   68    0603807A        MEDICAL                  34,284          34,284
                          SYSTEMS--ADV
                          DEV.
   69    0603827A        SOLDIER                  18,044          18,044
                          SYSTEMS--ADVAN
                          CED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   70    0604017A        ROBOTICS                 95,660          95,660
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   71    0604020A        CROSS                    38,000          38,000
                          FUNCTIONAL
                          TEAM (CFT)
                          ADVANCED
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPING.
   72    0604100A        ANALYSIS OF               9,765           9,765
                          ALTERNATIVES.
   73    0604113A        FUTURE TACTICAL          12,393          12,393
                          UNMANNED
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SYSTEM (FTUAS).
   74    0604114A        LOWER TIER AIR          120,374         120,374
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          (LTAMD) SENSOR.
   75    0604115A        TECHNOLOGY               95,347          95,347
                          MATURATION
                          INITIATIVES.
   76    0604117A        MANEUVER--SHORT          95,085          95,085
                          RANGE AIR
                          DEFENSE (M-
                          SHORAD).
   77    0604118A        TRACTOR BEAM...          52,894          52,894
   79    0604121A        SYNTHETIC                77,939          77,939
                          TRAINING
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          REFINEMENT &
                          PROTOTYPING.
   80    0604319A        INDIRECT FIRE            51,030          81,030
                          PROTECTION
                          CAPABILITY
                          INCREMENT 2-
                          INTERCEPT
                          (IFPC2).
         ..............      Accelerate                         [30,000]
                             delivery
                             and
                             capacity
                             for IFPC.
   81    0305251A        CYBERSPACE               65,817          70,817
                          OPERATIONS
                          FORCES AND
                          FORCE SUPPORT.
         ..............      Army Cyber                          [5,000]
                             Center of
                             Excellence.
   82    1206120A        ASSURED                 146,300         146,300
                          POSITIONING,
                          NAVIGATION AND
                          TIMING (PNT).
   83    1206308A        ARMY SPACE               38,319          38,319
                          SYSTEMS
                          INTEGRATION.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,329,393       1,386,393
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION
   84    0604201A        AIRCRAFT                 32,293          32,293
                          AVIONICS.
   85    0604270A        ELECTRONIC               78,699          78,699
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   88    0604328A        TRACTOR CAGE...          17,050          17,050
   89    0604601A        INFANTRY                 83,155          83,155
                          SUPPORT
                          WEAPONS.
   90    0604604A        MEDIUM TACTICAL           3,704           3,704
                          VEHICLES.
   91    0604611A        JAVELIN........          10,623          10,623
   92    0604622A        FAMILY OF HEAVY          11,950          11,950
                          TACTICAL
                          VEHICLES.
   93    0604633A        AIR TRAFFIC              12,347          12,347
                          CONTROL.
   95    0604642A        LIGHT TACTICAL            8,212           8,212
                          WHEELED
                          VEHICLES.
   96    0604645A        ARMORED SYSTEMS         393,613         318,613
                          MODERNIZATION
                          (ASM)--ENG DEV.
         ..............      Mobile                            [-75,000]
                             Protected
                             Firepower
                             decrease.
   97    0604710A        NIGHT VISION            139,614         139,614
                          SYSTEMS--ENG
                          DEV.
   98    0604713A        COMBAT FEEDING,           4,507           4,507
                          CLOTHING, AND
                          EQUIPMENT.
   99    0604715A        NON-SYSTEM               49,436          49,436
                          TRAINING
                          DEVICES--ENG
                          DEV.
  100    0604741A        AIR DEFENSE              95,172          95,172
                          COMMAND,
                          CONTROL AND
                          INTELLIGENCE--
                          ENG DEV.
  101    0604742A        CONSTRUCTIVE             22,628          22,628
                          SIMULATION
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  102    0604746A        AUTOMATIC TEST           13,297          13,297
                          EQUIPMENT
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  103    0604760A        DISTRIBUTIVE              9,145           9,145
                          INTERACTIVE
                          SIMULATIONS
                          (DIS)--ENG DEV.
  104    0604768A        BRILLIANT ANTI-           9,894           9,894
                          ARMOR
                          SUBMUNITION
                          (BAT).
  105    0604780A        COMBINED ARMS            21,964          21,964
                          TACTICAL
                          TRAINER (CATT)
                          CORE.
  106    0604798A        BRIGADE                  49,288          49,288
                          ANALYSIS,
                          INTEGRATION
                          AND EVALUATION.
  107    0604802A        WEAPONS AND             183,100         183,100
                          MUNITIONS--ENG
                          DEV.
  108    0604804A        LOGISTICS AND            79,706          79,706
                          ENGINEER
                          EQUIPMENT--ENG
                          DEV.
  109    0604805A        COMMAND,                 15,970          15,970
                          CONTROL,
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          SYSTEMS--ENG
                          DEV.
  110    0604807A        MEDICAL                  44,542          44,542
                          MATERIEL/
                          MEDICAL
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          EQUIPMENT--ENG
                          DEV.
  111    0604808A        LANDMINE                 50,817          50,817
                          WARFARE/
                          BARRIER--ENG
                          DEV.
  112    0604818A        ARMY TACTICAL           178,693         178,693
                          COMMAND &
                          CONTROL
                          HARDWARE &
                          SOFTWARE.
  113    0604820A        RADAR                    39,338          39,338
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  114    0604822A        GENERAL FUND             37,851          37,851
                          ENTERPRISE
                          BUSINESS
                          SYSTEM (GFEBS).
  115    0604823A        FIREFINDER.....          45,473          45,473
  116    0604827A        SOLDIER                  10,395          10,395
                          SYSTEMS--WARRI
                          OR DEM/VAL.
  117    0604852A        SUITE OF                 69,204          78,204
                          SURVIVABILITY
                          ENHANCEMENT
                          SYSTEMS--EMD.
         ..............      Suite of                            [9,000]
                             Vehicle
                             Protection
                             Systems.
  118    0604854A        ARTILLERY                 1,781           1,781
                          SYSTEMS--EMD.
  119    0605013A        INFORMATION             113,758         113,758
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  120    0605018A        INTEGRATED              166,603         166,603
                          PERSONNEL AND
                          PAY SYSTEM-
                          ARMY (IPPS-A).
  121    0605028A        ARMORED MULTI-          118,239         118,239
                          PURPOSE
                          VEHICLE (AMPV).
  122    0605029A        INTEGRATED                3,211           3,211
                          GROUND
                          SECURITY
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          RESPONSE
                          CAPABILITY
                          (IGSSR-C).
  123    0605030A        JOINT TACTICAL           15,889          15,889
                          NETWORK CENTER
                          (JTNC).
  124    0605031A        JOINT TACTICAL           41,972          41,972
                          NETWORK (JTN).
  125    0605032A        TRACTOR TIRE...          41,166          41,166
  126    0605033A        GROUND-BASED              5,175           5,175
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM--EXPEDI
                          TIONARY (GBOSS-
                          E).
  127    0605034A        TACTICAL                  4,496           4,496
                          SECURITY
                          SYSTEM (TSS).
  128    0605035A        COMMON INFRARED          51,178          51,178
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S (CIRCM).
  129    0605036A        COMBATING                11,311          11,311
                          WEAPONS OF
                          MASS
                          DESTRUCTION
                          (CWMD).
  131    0605038A        NUCLEAR                  17,154          17,154
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          CHEMICAL
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          VEHICLE
                          (NBCRV) SENSOR
                          SUITE.
  132    0605041A        DEFENSIVE CYBER          36,626          36,626
                          TOOL
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  133    0605042A        TACTICAL                  3,829           3,829
                          NETWORK RADIO
                          SYSTEMS (LOW-
                          TIER).
  134    0605047A        CONTRACT                 41,928               0
                          WRITING SYSTEM.
         ..............      Duplication                       [-41,928]
                             concern in
                             contract
                             writing
                             systems.
  135    0605049A        MISSILE WARNING          28,276          28,276
                          SYSTEM
                          MODERNIZATION
                          (MWSM).
  136    0605051A        AIRCRAFT                 21,965          21,965
                          SURVIVABILITY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  137    0605052A        INDIRECT FIRE           157,710         157,710
                          PROTECTION
                          CAPABILITY INC
                          2--BLOCK 1.
  138    0605053A        GROUND ROBOTICS          86,167          86,167
  139    0605054A        EMERGING                 42,866          42,866
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          INITIATIVES.
  140    0605380A        AMF JOINT                15,984          15,984
                          TACTICAL RADIO
                          SYSTEM (JTRS).
  141    0605450A        JOINT AIR-TO-            11,773          11,773
                          GROUND MISSILE
                          (JAGM).
  142    0605457A        ARMY INTEGRATED         277,607         277,607
                          AIR AND
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          (AIAMD).
  143    0605766A        NATIONAL                 12,340          12,340
                          CAPABILITIES
                          INTEGRATION
                          (MIP).
  144    0605812A        JOINT LIGHT               2,686           2,686
                          TACTICAL
                          VEHICLE (JLTV)
                          ENGINEERING
                          AND
                          MANUFACTURING
                          DEVELOPMENT PH.
  145    0605830A        AVIATION GROUND           2,706           2,706
                          SUPPORT
                          EQUIPMENT.
  147    0303032A        TROJAN--RH12...           4,521           4,521
  150    0304270A        ELECTRONIC                8,922           8,922
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  151    1205117A        TRACTOR BEARS..          23,170          23,170
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM       3,192,689       3,084,761
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         ..............  RDT&E
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
  152    0604256A        THREAT                   12,835          12,835
                          SIMULATOR
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  153    0604258A        TARGET SYSTEMS           12,135          12,135
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  154    0604759A        MAJOR T&E                82,996         107,996
                          INVESTMENT.
         ..............      Program                            [25,000]
                             increase.
  155    0605103A        RAND ARROYO              19,821          19,821
                          CENTER.
  156    0605301A        ARMY KWAJALEIN          246,574         246,574
                          ATOLL.
  157    0605326A        CONCEPTS                 30,430          30,430
                          EXPERIMENTATIO
                          N PROGRAM.
  159    0605601A        ARMY TEST               305,759         320,759
                          RANGES AND
                          FACILITIES.
         ..............      Increase to                        [15,000]
                             help manage
                             directed
                             energy
                             workloads.
  160    0605602A        ARMY TECHNICAL           62,379          62,379
                          TEST
                          INSTRUMENTATIO
                          N AND TARGETS.
  161    0605604A        SURVIVABILITY/           40,496          40,496
                          LETHALITY
                          ANALYSIS.
  162    0605606A        AIRCRAFT                  3,941           3,941
                          CERTIFICATION.
  163    0605702A        METEOROLOGICAL            9,767           9,767
                          SUPPORT TO
                          RDT&E
                          ACTIVITIES.
  164    0605706A        MATERIEL                 21,226          21,226
                          SYSTEMS
                          ANALYSIS.
  165    0605709A        EXPLOITATION OF          13,026          13,026
                          FOREIGN ITEMS.
  166    0605712A        SUPPORT OF               52,718          52,718
                          OPERATIONAL
                          TESTING.
  167    0605716A        ARMY EVALUATION          57,049          57,049
                          CENTER.
  168    0605718A        ARMY MODELING &           2,801           2,801
                          SIM X-CMD
                          COLLABORATION
                          & INTEG.
  169    0605801A        PROGRAMWIDE              60,942          60,942
                          ACTIVITIES.
  170    0605803A        TECHNICAL                29,050          29,050
                          INFORMATION
                          ACTIVITIES.
  171    0605805A        MUNITIONS                42,332          42,332
                          STANDARDIZATIO
                          N,
                          EFFECTIVENESS
                          AND SAFETY.
  172    0605857A        ENVIRONMENTAL             3,216           3,216
                          QUALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          MGMT SUPPORT.
  173    0605898A        ARMY DIRECT              54,145          54,145
                          REPORT
                          HEADQUARTERS--
                          R&D - MHA.
  174    0606001A        MILITARY GROUND-          4,896           4,896
                          BASED CREW
                          TECHNOLOGY.
  175    0606002A        RONALD REAGAN            63,011          63,011
                          BALLISTIC
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE TEST
                          SITE.
  176    0606003A        COUNTERINTEL              2,636           2,636
                          AND HUMAN
                          INTEL
                          MODERNIZATION.
  177    0606942A        ASSESSMENTS AND          88,300          88,300
                          EVALUATIONS
                          CYBER
                          VULNERABILITIE
                          S.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL RDT&E        1,322,481       1,362,481
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         9999999999      CLASSIFIED                5,955           5,955
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
  181    0603778A        MLRS PRODUCT              8,886           8,886
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  182    0603813A        TRACTOR PULL...           4,067           4,067
  183    0605024A        ANTI-TAMPER               4,254           4,254
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SUPPORT.
  184    0607131A        WEAPONS AND              16,022          16,022
                          MUNITIONS
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAMS.
  185    0607133A        TRACTOR SMOKE..           4,577           4,577
  186    0607134A        LONG RANGE              186,475         186,475
                          PRECISION
                          FIRES (LRPF).
  187    0607135A        APACHE PRODUCT           31,049          31,049
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  188    0607136A        BLACKHAWK                35,240          35,240
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  189    0607137A        CHINOOK PRODUCT         157,822         157,822
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  190    0607138A        FIXED WING                4,189           4,189
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  191    0607139A        IMPROVED                192,637         192,637
                          TURBINE ENGINE
                          PROGRAM.
  194    0607142A        AVIATION ROCKET          60,860          60,860
                          SYSTEM PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  195    0607143A        UNMANNED                 52,019          52,019
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SYSTEM
                          UNIVERSAL
                          PRODUCTS.
  196    0607665A        FAMILY OF                 2,400           2,400
                          BIOMETRICS.
  197    0607865A        PATRIOT PRODUCT          65,369          65,369
                          IMPROVEMENT.
  198    0202429A        AEROSTAT JOINT                1               1
                          PROJECT--COCOM
                          EXERCISE.
  199    0203728A        JOINT AUTOMATED          30,954          30,954
                          DEEP OPERATION
                          COORDINATION
                          SYSTEM
                          (JADOCS).
  200    0203735A        COMBAT VEHICLE          411,927         411,927
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAMS.
  202    0203743A        155MM SELF-              40,676          40,676
                          PROPELLED
                          HOWITZER
                          IMPROVEMENTS.
  203    0203744A        AIRCRAFT                 17,706          17,706
                          MODIFICATIONS/
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAMS.
  204    0203752A        AIRCRAFT ENGINE             146             146
                          COMPONENT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  205    0203758A        DIGITIZATION...           6,316           6,316
  206    0203801A        MISSILE/AIR               1,643           1,643
                          DEFENSE
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  207    0203802A        OTHER MISSILE             4,947           4,947
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAMS.
  208    0203808A        TRACTOR CARD...          34,050          34,050
  210    0205410A        MATERIALS                 1,464           1,464
                          HANDLING
                          EQUIPMENT.
  211    0205412A        ENVIRONMENTAL               249             249
                          QUALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY--OP
                          ERATIONAL
                          SYSTEM DEV.
  212    0205456A        LOWER TIER AIR           79,283          79,283
                          AND MISSILE
                          DEFENSE (AMD)
                          SYSTEM.
  213    0205778A        GUIDED MULTIPLE-        154,102         154,102
                          LAUNCH ROCKET
                          SYSTEM (GMLRS).
  216    0303028A        SECURITY AND             12,280          12,280
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  217    0303140A        INFORMATION              68,533          68,533
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  218    0303141A        GLOBAL COMBAT            68,619          68,619
                          SUPPORT SYSTEM.
  220    0303150A        WWMCCS/GLOBAL             2,034           2,034
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL SYSTEM.
  223    0305172A        COMBINED                  1,500           1,500
                          ADVANCED
                          APPLICATIONS.
  224    0305179A        INTEGRATED                  450             450
                          BROADCAST
                          SERVICE (IBS).
  225    0305204A        TACTICAL                  6,000           6,000
                          UNMANNED
                          AERIAL
                          VEHICLES.
  226    0305206A        AIRBORNE                 12,416          12,416
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          SYSTEMS.
  227    0305208A        DISTRIBUTED              38,667          38,667
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  229    0305232A        RQ-11 UAV......           6,180           6,180
  230    0305233A        RQ-7 UAV.......          12,863          12,863
  231    0307665A        BIOMETRICS                4,310           4,310
                          ENABLED
                          INTELLIGENCE.
  233    0708045A        END ITEM                 53,958          53,958
                          INDUSTRIAL
                          PREPAREDNESS
                          ACTIVITIES.
  234    1203142A        SATCOM GROUND            12,119          12,119
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          (SPACE).
  235    1208053A        JOINT TACTICAL            7,400           7,400
                          GROUND SYSTEM.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,922,614       1,922,614
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RESEARCH,      10,159,379      10,278,951
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          ARMY.
         ..............
         ..............  RESEARCH,
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          NAVY
         ..............  BASIC RESEARCH
    1    0601103N        UNIVERSITY              119,433         124,433
                          RESEARCH
                          INITIATIVES.
         ..............      Basic                               [5,000]
                             research
                             program
                             increase.
    2    0601152N        IN-HOUSE                 19,237          19,237
                          LABORATORY
                          INDEPENDENT
                          RESEARCH.
    3    0601153N        DEFENSE                 458,708         468,708
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCES.
         ..............      Basic                               [5,000]
                             research
                             program
                             increase.
         ..............      Quantum                             [5,000]
                             information
                             sciences.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL BASIC          597,378         612,378
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
    4    0602114N        POWER                    14,643          17,143
                          PROJECTION
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Directed                            [2,500]
                             energy.
    5    0602123N        FORCE                   124,049         124,049
                          PROTECTION
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
    6    0602131M        MARINE CORPS             59,607          59,607
                          LANDING FORCE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
    7    0602235N        COMMON PICTURE           36,348          36,348
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
    8    0602236N        WARFIGHTER               56,197          48,697
                          SUSTAINMENT
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      ONR global                         [-7,500]
                             growth.
    9    0602271N        ELECTROMAGNETIC          83,800          83,800
                          SYSTEMS
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   10    0602435N        OCEAN                    42,998          42,998
                          WARFIGHTING
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   11    0602651M        JOINT NON-                6,349           6,349
                          LETHAL WEAPONS
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   12    0602747N        UNDERSEA                 58,049          78,049
                          WARFARE
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      General                            [20,000]
                             program
                             increase.
   13    0602750N        FUTURE NAVAL            147,771         147,771
                          CAPABILITIES
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   14    0602782N        MINE AND                 37,545          37,545
                          EXPEDITIONARY
                          WARFARE
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   15    0602792N        INNOVATIVE              159,697         164,697
                          NAVAL
                          PROTOTYPES
                          (INP) APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Directed                            [5,000]
                             energy and
                             electronic
                             warfare/
                             unmanned
                             and
                             autonomous
                             systems.
   16    0602861N        SCIENCE AND              64,418          64,418
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          MANAGEMENT--ON
                          R FIELD
                          ACITIVITIES.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                891,471         911,471
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
   19    0603123N        FORCE                     2,423           2,423
                          PROTECTION
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   21    0603640M        USMC ADVANCED           150,245         140,245
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEMONSTRATION
                          (ATD).
         ..............      Unjustified                       [-10,000]
                             growth.
   22    0603651M        JOINT NON-               13,313          13,313
                          LETHAL WEAPONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   23    0603671N        NAVY ADVANCED           131,502         131,502
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          (ATD).
   24    0603673N        FUTURE NAVAL            232,996         232,996
                          CAPABILITIES
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   25    0603680N        MANUFACTURING            58,657          58,657
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
   30    0603801N        INNOVATIVE              161,859         166,359
                          NAVAL
                          PROTOTYPES
                          (INP) ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      DE & EW/                            [4,500]
                             unmanned
                             and
                             autonomous
                             systems.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                750,995         745,495
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES
   31    0603207N        AIR/OCEAN                29,747          29,747
                          TACTICAL
                          APPLICATIONS.
   32    0603216N        AVIATION                  7,050           7,050
                          SURVIVABILITY.
   33    0603251N        AIRCRAFT                    793             793
                          SYSTEMS.
   34    0603254N        ASW SYSTEMS               7,058           7,058
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   35    0603261N        TACTICAL                  3,540           3,540
                          AIRBORNE
                          RECONNAISSANCE.
   36    0603382N        ADVANCED COMBAT          59,741          62,241
                          SYSTEMS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Locust/HCUS/                        [2,500]
                             INP
                             Transition.
   37    0603502N        SURFACE AND              62,727          36,727
                          SHALLOW WATER
                          MINE
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S.
         ..............      Barracuda                         [-26,000]
                             EDMs ahead
                             of PDR and
                             CDR.
   38    0603506N        SURFACE SHIP              8,570           8,570
                          TORPEDO
                          DEFENSE.
   39    0603512N        CARRIER SYSTEMS           5,440           5,440
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   40    0603525N        PILOT FISH.....         162,222         162,222
   41    0603527N        RETRACT LARCH..          11,745          11,745
   42    0603536N        RETRACT JUNIPER         114,265         114,265
   43    0603542N        RADIOLOGICAL                740             740
                          CONTROL.
   44    0603553N        SURFACE ASW....           1,122           1,122
   45    0603561N        ADVANCED                109,086         112,586
                          SUBMARINE
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Advanced                            [3,500]
                             submarine
                             propulsion
                             development.
   46    0603562N        SUBMARINE                 9,374           9,374
                          TACTICAL
                          WARFARE
                          SYSTEMS.
   47    0603563N        SHIP CONCEPT             89,419         107,419
                          ADVANCED
                          DESIGN.
         ..............      CHAMP                              [18,000]
                             acceleratio
                             n.
   48    0603564N        SHIP                     13,348          13,348
                          PRELIMINARY
                          DESIGN &
                          FEASIBILITY
                          STUDIES.
   49    0603570N        ADVANCED                256,137         256,137
                          NUCLEAR POWER
                          SYSTEMS.
   50    0603573N        ADVANCED                 22,109          22,109
                          SURFACE
                          MACHINERY
                          SYSTEMS.
   51    0603576N        CHALK EAGLE....          29,744          29,744
   52    0603581N        LITTORAL COMBAT          27,997          27,997
                          SHIP (LCS).
   53    0603582N        COMBAT SYSTEM            16,351          16,351
                          INTEGRATION.
   54    0603595N        OHIO                    514,846         514,846
                          REPLACEMENT.
   55    0603596N        LCS MISSION             103,633         133,033
                          MODULES.
         ..............      Project                            [-5,000]
                             2552: Align
                             with
                             deferred
                             LCS-6 SSMM
                             test.
         ..............      Transfer                           [16,700]
                             from PE
                             64028N.
         ..............      Transfer                           [10,100]
                             from PE
                             64126N.
         ..............      Transfer                            [7,600]
                             from PE
                             64127N.
   56    0603597N        AUTOMATED TEST            7,931           7,931
                          AND ANALYSIS.
   57    0603599N        FRIGATE                 134,772         134,772
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   58    0603609N        CONVENTIONAL              9,307           9,307
                          MUNITIONS.
   60    0603635M        MARINE CORPS              1,828           1,828
                          GROUND COMBAT/
                          SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   61    0603654N        JOINT SERVICE            43,148          43,148
                          EXPLOSIVE
                          ORDNANCE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   62    0603713N        OCEAN                     5,915           5,915
                          ENGINEERING
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   63    0603721N        ENVIRONMENTAL            19,811          19,811
                          PROTECTION.
   64    0603724N        NAVY ENERGY              25,656          25,656
                          PROGRAM.
   65    0603725N        FACILITIES                5,301           5,301
                          IMPROVEMENT.
   66    0603734N        CHALK CORAL....         267,985         267,985
   67    0603739N        NAVY LOGISTIC             4,059           4,059
                          PRODUCTIVITY.
   68    0603746N        RETRACT MAPLE..         377,878         377,878
   69    0603748N        LINK PLUMERIA..         381,770         381,770
   70    0603751N        RETRACT ELM....          60,535          60,535
   73    0603790N        NATO RESEARCH             9,652           9,652
                          AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   74    0603795N        LAND ATTACK              15,529               0
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Program                           [-15,529]
                             delay and
                             no GLGP EMD
                             FYDP
                             funding.
   75    0603851M        JOINT NON-               27,581          27,581
                          LETHAL WEAPONS
                          TESTING.
   76    0603860N        JOINT PRECISION         101,566         101,566
                          APPROACH AND
                          LANDING
                          SYSTEMS--DEM/
                          VAL.
   77    0603925N        DIRECTED ENERGY         223,344         223,344
                          AND ELECTRIC
                          WEAPON SYSTEMS.
   78    0604014N        F/A -18                 108,700         132,700
                          INFRARED
                          SEARCH AND
                          TRACK (IRST).
         ..............      IRST block                         [24,000]
                             II risk
                             reduction.
   79    0604027N        DIGITAL WARFARE          26,691          26,691
                          OFFICE.
   80    0604028N        SMALL AND                16,717               0
                          MEDIUM
                          UNMANNED
                          UNDERSEA
                          VEHICLES.
         ..............      Transfer to                       [-16,717]
                             PE 63596N.
   81    0604029N        UNMANNED                 30,187          30,187
                          UNDERSEA
                          VEHICLE CORE
                          TECHNOLOGIES.
   82    0604030N        RAPID                    48,796          48,796
                          PROTOTYPING,
                          EXPERIMENTATIO
                          N AND
                          DEMONSTRATION..
   83    0604031N        LARGE UNMANNED           92,613          71,413
                          UNDERSEA
                          VEHICLES.
         ..............      Early to                          [-21,200]
                             need.
   84    0604112N        GERALD R. FORD           58,121          58,121
                          CLASS NUCLEAR
                          AIRCRAFT
                          CARRIER (CVN
                          78--80).
   86    0604126N        LITTORAL                 17,622           7,522
                          AIRBORNE MCM.
         ..............      Transfer to                       [-10,100]
                             PE 63596N.
   87    0604127N        SURFACE MINE             18,154          10,554
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S.
         ..............      Transfer to                        [-7,600]
                             PE 63596N.
   88    0604272N        TACTICAL AIR             47,278          47,278
                          DIRECTIONAL
                          INFRARED
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S (TADIRCM).
   90    0604289M        NEXT GENERATION          11,081          11,081
                          LOGISTICS.
   92    0604320M        RAPID                     7,107           7,107
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          CAPABILITY
                          PROTOTYPE.
   93    0604454N        LX (R).........           5,549           5,549
   94    0604536N        ADVANCED                 87,669          87,669
                          UNDERSEA
                          PROTOTYPING.
   95    0604659N        PRECISION               132,818         132,818
                          STRIKE WEAPONS
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          PROGRAM.
   96    0604707N        SPACE AND                 7,230           7,230
                          ELECTRONIC
                          WARFARE (SEW)
                          ARCHITECTURE/
                          ENGINEERING
                          SUPPORT.
   97    0604786N        OFFENSIVE ANTI-         143,062         143,062
                          SURFACE
                          WARFARE WEAPON
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   99    0303354N        ASW SYSTEMS               8,889           8,889
                          DEVELOPMENT--M
                          IP.
  100    0304240M        ADVANCED                 25,291          25,291
                          TACTICAL
                          UNMANNED
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SYSTEM.
  101    0304240N        ADVANCED                  9,300           9,300
                          TACTICAL
                          UNMANNED
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SYSTEM.
  102    0304270N        ELECTRONIC                  466             466
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT--M
                          IP.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              4,293,713       4,273,967
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION
  103    0603208N        TRAINING SYSTEM          12,798          12,798
                          AIRCRAFT.
  104    0604212N        OTHER HELO               32,128          32,128
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  105    0604214M        AV-8B AIRCRAFT--         46,363          30,163
                          ENG DEV.
         ..............      Lacks                             [-16,200]
                             operational
                             justificati
                             on/need.
  107    0604215N        STANDARDS                 3,771           3,771
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  108    0604216N        MULTI-MISSION            16,611          16,611
                          HELICOPTER
                          UPGRADE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  109    0604218N        AIR/OCEAN                17,368          17,368
                          EQUIPMENT
                          ENGINEERING.
  110    0604221N        P-3                       2,134           2,134
                          MODERNIZATION
                          PROGRAM.
  111    0604230N        WARFARE SUPPORT           9,729           9,729
                          SYSTEM.
  112    0604231N        TACTICAL                 57,688          57,688
                          COMMAND SYSTEM.
  113    0604234N        ADVANCED                223,565         223,565
                          HAWKEYE.
  114    0604245M        H-1 UPGRADES...          58,097          58,097
  116    0604261N        ACOUSTIC SEARCH          42,485          42,485
                          SENSORS.
  117    0604262N        V-22A..........         143,079         143,079
  118    0604264N        AIR CREW                 20,980          30,980
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Increase to                        [10,000]
                             advance
                             aircrew
                             physiologic
                             al
                             monitoring.
  119    0604269N        EA-18..........         147,419         242,719
         ..............      UPL--EA-18G                        [95,300]
                             Advanced
                             Modes /
                             Cognitive
                             EW.
  120    0604270N        ELECTRONIC               89,824         121,424
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      UPL--EA-18G                        [31,600]
                             Offensive
                             Airborne
                             Electronic
                             Attack
                             Special
                             Mission Pod.
  121    0604273M        EXECUTIVE HELO          245,064         245,064
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  123    0604274N        NEXT GENERATION         459,529         459,529
                          JAMMER (NGJ).
  124    0604280N        JOINT TACTICAL            3,272           3,272
                          RADIO SYSTEM--
                          NAVY (JTRS-
                          NAVY).
  125    0604282N        NEXT GENERATION         115,253         115,253
                          JAMMER (NGJ)
                          INCREMENT II.
  126    0604307N        SURFACE                 397,403         397,403
                          COMBATANT
                          COMBAT SYSTEM
                          ENGINEERING.
  127    0604311N        LPD-17 CLASS                939          50,939
                          SYSTEMS
                          INTEGRATION.
         ..............      Mk 41 VLS                          [50,000]
                             integration.
  128    0604329N        SMALL DIAMETER          104,448         104,448
                          BOMB (SDB).
  129    0604366N        STANDARD                165,881         184,881
                          MISSILE
                          IMPROVEMENTS.
         ..............      Navy UPL:                          [19,000]
                             SM-6 Blk 1B
                             21" rocket
                             motor.
  130    0604373N        AIRBORNE MCM...          10,831          10,831
  131    0604378N        NAVAL                    33,429          33,429
                          INTEGRATED
                          FIRE CONTROL--
                          COUNTER AIR
                          SYSTEMS
                          ENGINEERING.
  132    0604501N        ADVANCED ABOVE           35,635          35,635
                          WATER SENSORS.
  133    0604503N        SSN-688 AND             126,932         126,932
                          TRIDENT
                          MODERNIZATION.
  134    0604504N        AIR CONTROL....          62,448          62,448
  135    0604512N        SHIPBOARD                 9,710           9,710
                          AVIATION
                          SYSTEMS.
  136    0604518N        COMBAT                   19,303          19,303
                          INFORMATION
                          CENTER
                          CONVERSION.
  137    0604522N        AIR AND MISSILE          27,059          27,059
                          DEFENSE RADAR
                          (AMDR) SYSTEM.
  138    0604530N        ADVANCED                184,106         184,106
                          ARRESTING GEAR
                          (AAG).
  139    0604558N        NEW DESIGN SSN.         148,233         148,233
  140    0604562N        SUBMARINE                60,824          60,824
                          TACTICAL
                          WARFARE SYSTEM.
  141    0604567N        SHIP CONTRACT            60,062          66,062
                          DESIGN/ LIVE
                          FIRE T&E.
         ..............      Planning to                         [6,000]
                             support
                             FY21 award
                             of LHA-9.
  142    0604574N        NAVY TACTICAL             4,642           4,642
                          COMPUTER
                          RESOURCES.
  144    0604601N        MINE                     25,756          25,756
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  145    0604610N        LIGHTWEIGHT              95,147          95,147
                          TORPEDO
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  146    0604654N        JOINT SERVICE             7,107           7,107
                          EXPLOSIVE
                          ORDNANCE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  147    0604703N        PERSONNEL,                6,539           6,539
                          TRAINING,
                          SIMULATION,
                          AND HUMAN
                          FACTORS.
  148    0604727N        JOINT STANDOFF              441             441
                          WEAPON SYSTEMS.
  149    0604755N        SHIP SELF               180,391         180,391
                          DEFENSE
                          (DETECT &
                          CONTROL).
  150    0604756N        SHIP SELF               178,538         178,538
                          DEFENSE
                          (ENGAGE: HARD
                          KILL).
  151    0604757N        SHIP SELF               120,507         120,507
                          DEFENSE
                          (ENGAGE: SOFT
                          KILL/EW).
  152    0604761N        INTELLIGENCE             29,715          29,715
                          ENGINEERING.
  153    0604771N        MEDICAL                   8,095           8,095
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  154    0604777N        NAVIGATION/ID           121,026         121,026
                          SYSTEM.
  155    0604800M        JOINT STRIKE             66,566          66,566
                          FIGHTER (JSF)--
                          EMD.
  156    0604800N        JOINT STRIKE             65,494          65,494
                          FIGHTER (JSF)--
                          EMD.
  159    0605013M        INFORMATION              14,005          14,005
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  160    0605013N        INFORMATION             268,567         178,467
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Duplication                       [-26,300]
                             concern in
                             contract
                             writing
                             systems.
         ..............      Lengthy                           [-63,800]
                             delivery
                             timelines
                             for Navy
                             Personnel
                             and Pay
                             System.
  161    0605024N        ANTI-TAMPER               5,618           5,618
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SUPPORT.
  162    0605212M        CH-53K RDTE....         326,945         326,945
  164    0605215N        MISSION                  32,714          32,714
                          PLANNING.
  165    0605217N        COMMON AVIONICS          51,486          51,486
  166    0605220N        SHIP TO SHORE             1,444           1,444
                          CONNECTOR
                          (SSC).
  167    0605327N        T-AO 205 CLASS.           1,298           1,298
  168    0605414N        UNMANNED                718,942         718,942
                          CARRIER
                          AVIATION (UCA).
  169    0605450M        JOINT AIR-TO-             6,759           6,759
                          GROUND MISSILE
                          (JAGM).
  171    0605500N        MULTI-MISSION            37,296          37,296
                          MARITIME
                          AIRCRAFT (MMA).
  172    0605504N        MULTI-MISSION           160,389         160,389
                          MARITIME (MMA)
                          INCREMENT III.
  173    0605611M        MARINE CORPS             98,223          98,223
                          ASSAULT
                          VEHICLES
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
  174    0605813M        JOINT LIGHT               2,260           2,260
                          TACTICAL
                          VEHICLE (JLTV)
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
  175    0204202N        DDG-1000.......         161,264         161,264
  180    0304785N        TACTICAL                 44,098          44,098
                          CRYPTOLOGIC
                          SYSTEMS.
  182    0306250M        CYBER                     6,808           6,808
                          OPERATIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM       6,042,480       6,148,080
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
  183    0604256N        THREAT                   94,576          94,576
                          SIMULATOR
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  184    0604258N        TARGET SYSTEMS           10,981          10,981
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  185    0604759N        MAJOR T&E                77,014          77,014
                          INVESTMENT.
  186    0605126N        JOINT THEATER                48              48
                          AIR AND
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          ORGANIZATION.
  187    0605152N        STUDIES AND               3,942           3,942
                          ANALYSIS
                          SUPPORT--NAVY.
  188    0605154N        CENTER FOR               48,797          48,797
                          NAVAL ANALYSES.
  189    0605285N        NEXT GENERATION           5,000           5,000
                          FIGHTER.
  191    0605804N        TECHNICAL                 1,029           1,029
                          INFORMATION
                          SERVICES.
  192    0605853N        MANAGEMENT,              87,565          78,565
                          TECHNICAL &
                          INTERNATIONAL
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............      Insufficien                        [-9,000]
                             t budget
                             justificati
                             on.
  193    0605856N        STRATEGIC                 4,231           4,231
                          TECHNICAL
                          SUPPORT.
  194    0605861N        RDT&E SCIENCE             1,072           1,072
                          AND TECHNOLOGY
                          MANAGEMENT.
  195    0605863N        RDT&E SHIP AND           97,471          97,471
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SUPPORT.
  196    0605864N        TEST AND                373,834         373,834
                          EVALUATION
                          SUPPORT.
  197    0605865N        OPERATIONAL              21,554          21,554
                          TEST AND
                          EVALUATION
                          CAPABILITY.
  198    0605866N        NAVY SPACE AND           16,227          16,227
                          ELECTRONIC
                          WARFARE (SEW)
                          SUPPORT.
  200    0605873M        MARINE CORPS             24,303          24,303
                          PROGRAM WIDE
                          SUPPORT.
  201    0605898N        MANAGEMENT HQ--          43,262          43,262
                          R&D.
  202    0606355N        WARFARE                  41,918          41,918
                          INNOVATION
                          MANAGEMENT.
  203    0606942M        ASSESSMENTS AND           7,000           7,000
                          EVALUATIONS
                          CYBER
                          VULNERABILITIE
                          S.
  204    0606942N        ASSESSMENTS AND          48,800          48,800
                          EVALUATIONS
                          CYBER
                          VULNERABILITIE
                          S.
  205    0305327N        INSIDER THREAT.           1,682           1,682
  206    0902498N        MANAGEMENT                1,579           1,579
                          HEADQUARTERS
                          (DEPARTMENTAL
                          SUPPORT
                          ACTIVITIES).
  208    1206867N        SEW                       8,684           8,684
                          SURVEILLANCE/
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,020,569       1,011,569
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         9999999999      CLASSIFIED            1,549,503       1,549,503
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
  210    0604227N        HARPOON                   5,426           5,426
                          MODIFICATIONS.
  211    0604840M        F-35 C2D2......         259,122         259,122
  212    0604840N        F-35 C2D2......         252,360         252,360
  213    0607658N        COOPERATIVE             130,515         130,515
                          ENGAGEMENT
                          CAPABILITY
                          (CEC).
  214    0607700N        DEPLOYABLE                3,127           3,127
                          JOINT COMMAND
                          AND CONTROL.
  215    0101221N        STRATEGIC SUB &         157,679         157,679
                          WEAPONS SYSTEM
                          SUPPORT.
  216    0101224N        SSBN SECURITY            43,198          43,198
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
  217    0101226N        SUBMARINE                11,311          11,311
                          ACOUSTIC
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  218    0101402N        NAVY STRATEGIC           39,313          39,313
                          COMMUNICATIONS.
  219    0204136N        F/A-18                  193,086         193,086
                          SQUADRONS.
  220    0204163N        FLEET                    25,014          25,014
                          TELECOMMUNICAT
                          IONS
                          (TACTICAL).
  221    0204228N        SURFACE SUPPORT          11,661          11,661
  222    0204229N        TOMAHAWK AND            282,395         291,095
                          TOMAHAWK
                          MISSION
                          PLANNING
                          CENTER (TMPC).
         ..............      Restore MST                         [8,700]
                             to maintain
                             2020 IOC.
  223    0204311N        INTEGRATED               36,959          71,959
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM.
         ..............      Additional                         [35,000]
                             TRAPS units.
  224    0204313N        SHIP-TOWED               15,454          15,454
                          ARRAY
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEMS.
  225    0204413N        AMPHIBIOUS                6,073           6,073
                          TACTICAL
                          SUPPORT UNITS
                          (DISPLACEMENT
                          CRAFT).
  226    0204460M        GROUND/AIR TASK          45,029          45,029
                          ORIENTED RADAR
                          (G/ATOR).
  227    0204571N        CONSOLIDATED            104,903         104,903
                          TRAINING
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  228    0204574N        CRYPTOLOGIC               4,544           4,544
                          DIRECT SUPPORT.
  229    0204575N        ELECTRONIC               66,889          66,889
                          WARFARE (EW)
                          READINESS
                          SUPPORT.
  230    0205601N        HARM                    120,762          21,522
                          IMPROVEMENT.
         ..............      Cancel ER                         [-99,240]
                             program.
  231    0205604N        TACTICAL DATA           104,696         116,696
                          LINKS.
         ..............      UPL--Tactic                        [12,000]
                             al
                             Targeting
                             Network
                             Technology
                             acceleratio
                             n.
  232    0205620N        SURFACE ASW              28,421          28,421
                          COMBAT SYSTEM
                          INTEGRATION.
  233    0205632N        MK-48 ADCAP....          94,155          94,155
  234    0205633N        AVIATION                121,805         136,805
                          IMPROVEMENTS.
         ..............      UPL--F/A-18                        [15,000]
                             E/F Super
                             Hornet
                             Engine
                             Enhancement
                             s.
  235    0205675N        OPERATIONAL             117,028         117,028
                          NUCLEAR POWER
                          SYSTEMS.
  236    0206313M        MARINE CORPS            174,779         174,779
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          SYSTEMS.
  237    0206335M        COMMON AVIATION           4,826           4,826
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL SYSTEM
                          (CAC2S).
  238    0206623M        MARINE CORPS             97,152          97,152
                          GROUND COMBAT/
                          SUPPORTING
                          ARMS SYSTEMS.
  239    0206624M        MARINE CORPS             30,156          30,156
                          COMBAT
                          SERVICES
                          SUPPORT.
  240    0206625M        USMC                     39,976          39,976
                          INTELLIGENCE/
                          ELECTRONIC
                          WARFARE
                          SYSTEMS (MIP).
  241    0206629M        AMPHIBIOUS               22,637               0
                          ASSAULT
                          VEHICLE.
         ..............      Lacks                             [-22,637]
                             operational
                             justificati
                             on/need.
  242    0207161N        TACTICAL AIM             40,121          40,121
                          MISSILES.
  243    0207163N        ADVANCED MEDIUM          32,473          32,473
                          RANGE AIR-TO-
                          AIR MISSILE
                          (AMRAAM).
  249    0303138N        CONSOLIDATED             23,697          23,697
                          AFLOAT NETWORK
                          ENTERPRISE
                          SERVICES
                          (CANES).
  250    0303140N        INFORMATION              44,228          44,228
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  252    0305192N        MILITARY                  6,081           6,081
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          PROGRAM (MIP)
                          ACTIVITIES.
  253    0305204N        TACTICAL                  8,529           8,529
                          UNMANNED
                          AERIAL
                          VEHICLES.
  254    0305205N        UAS INTEGRATION          41,212          41,212
                          AND
                          INTEROPERABILI
                          TY.
  255    0305208M        DISTRIBUTED               7,687           7,687
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  256    0305208N        DISTRIBUTED              42,846          42,846
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  257    0305220N        MQ-4C TRITON...          14,395          14,395
  258    0305231N        MQ-8 UAV.......           9,843           9,843
  259    0305232M        RQ-11 UAV......             524             524
  260    0305234N        SMALL (LEVEL 0)           5,360           5,360
                          TACTICAL UAS
                          (STUASL0).
  261    0305239M        RQ-21A.........          10,914          10,914
  262    0305241N        MULTI-                   81,231          81,231
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          SENSOR
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  263    0305242M        UNMANNED AERIAL           5,956           5,956
                          SYSTEMS (UAS)
                          PAYLOADS (MIP).
  264    0305421N        RQ-4                    219,894         219,894
                          MODERNIZATION.
  265    0308601N        MODELING AND              7,097           7,097
                          SIMULATION
                          SUPPORT.
  266    0702207N        DEPOT                    36,560          36,560
                          MAINTENANCE
                          (NON-IF).
  267    0708730N        MARITIME                  7,284           7,284
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          (MARITECH).
  268    1203109N        SATELLITE                39,174          39,174
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          (SPACE).
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              4,885,060       4,833,883
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RESEARCH,      18,481,666      18,536,843
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          NAVY.
         ..............
         ..............  RESEARCH,
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          AF
         ..............  BASIC RESEARCH
    1    0601102F        DEFENSE                 348,322         358,322
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCES.
         ..............      Basic                               [5,000]
                             research
                             program
                             increase.
         ..............      Quantum                             [5,000]
                             information
                             sciences.
    2    0601103F        UNIVERSITY              154,991         154,991
                          RESEARCH
                          INITIATIVES.
    3    0601108F        HIGH ENERGY              14,506          17,006
                          LASER RESEARCH
                          INITIATIVES.
         ..............      Directed                            [2,500]
                             energy
                             research.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL BASIC          517,819         530,319
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
    4    0602102F        MATERIALS......         125,373         129,373
         ..............      Advanced                            [4,000]
                             materials
                             analysis.
    5    0602201F        AEROSPACE               130,547         135,547
                          VEHICLE
                          TECHNOLOGIES.
         ..............      High speed                          [5,000]
                             systems
                             technology
                             (hypersonic
                             vehicle
                             structures).
    6    0602202F        HUMAN                   112,518         112,518
                          EFFECTIVENESS
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
    7    0602203F        AEROSPACE               190,919         213,419
                          PROPULSION.
         ..............      Affordable                         [15,000]
                             Responsive
                             Modular
                             Rocket.
         ..............      Multi-mode                          [3,000]
                             propulsion.
         ..............      Solid                               [2,000]
                             rocket
                             motor
                             produce on-
                             demand.
         ..............      Turbine                             [2,500]
                             engine
                             technology.
    8    0602204F        AEROSPACE               166,534         159,034
                          SENSORS.
         ..............      General                            [-7,500]
                             program
                             reduction.
    9    0602298F        SCIENCE AND               8,288           8,288
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          MANAGEMENT--
                          MAJOR
                          HEADQUARTERS
                          ACTIVITIES.
   11    0602602F        CONVENTIONAL            112,841         112,841
                          MUNITIONS.
   12    0602605F        DIRECTED ENERGY         141,898         145,898
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Skywave                             [4,000]
                             technologie
                             s
                             laboratory.
   13    0602788F        DOMINANT                162,420         162,420
                          INFORMATION
                          SCIENCES AND
                          METHODS.
   14    0602890F        HIGH ENERGY              43,359          55,859
                          LASER RESEARCH.
         ..............      Directed                            [2,500]
                             energy
                             research.
         ..............      High                               [10,000]
                             powered
                             microwave.
   15    1206601F        SPACE                   117,645         123,645
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Wargaming                           [6,000]
                             and
                             simulator
                             lab.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,312,342       1,358,842
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
   16    0603112F        ADVANCED                 34,426          31,926
                          MATERIALS FOR
                          WEAPON SYSTEMS.
         ..............      General                            [-5,000]
                             program
                             reduction.
         ..............      Materials                           [2,500]
                             affordabili
                             ty.
   17    0603199F        SUSTAINMENT              15,150          16,150
                          SCIENCE AND
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          (S&T).
         ..............      Prevention/                         [1,000]
                             enhanced
                             maintainabi
                             lity
                             technologie
                             s.
   18    0603203F        ADVANCED                 39,968          39,968
                          AEROSPACE
                          SENSORS.
   19    0603211F        AEROSPACE               121,002         131,002
                          TECHNOLOGY DEV/
                          DEMO.
         ..............      Design/                            [10,000]
                             Manufacture
                             aircraft
                             aft body
                             drag
                             reduction
                             devices.
   20    0603216F        AEROSPACE               115,462         139,462
                          PROPULSION AND
                          POWER
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      General                             [9,000]
                             program
                             increase.
         ..............      Multi-mode                          [5,000]
                             propulsion.
         ..............      Technology                         [10,000]
                             for the
                             Sustainment
                             of
                             Strategic
                             Systems.
   21    0603270F        ELECTRONIC               55,319          60,319
                          COMBAT
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      RF/EO/IR                            [5,000]
                             warning and
                             countermeas
                             ures.
   22    0603401F        ADVANCED                 54,895          54,895
                          SPACECRAFT
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   23    0603444F        MAUI SPACE               10,674          10,674
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM (MSSS).
   24    0603456F        HUMAN                    36,463          36,463
                          EFFECTIVENESS
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   25    0603601F        CONVENTIONAL            194,981         194,981
                          WEAPONS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   26    0603605F        ADVANCED                 43,368          53,368
                          WEAPONS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Demonstrato                        [10,000]
                             r laser
                             weapon
                             system.
   27    0603680F        MANUFACTURING            42,025          42,025
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
   28    0603788F        BATTLESPACE              51,064          51,064
                          KNOWLEDGE
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                814,797         862,297
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES
   30    0603260F        INTELLIGENCE              5,568           5,568
                          ADVANCED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   32    0603742F        COMBAT                   18,194          18,194
                          IDENTIFICATION
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   33    0603790F        NATO RESEARCH             2,305           2,305
                          AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   35    0603851F        INTERCONTINENTA          41,856          41,856
                          L BALLISTIC
                          MISSILE--DEM/
                          VAL.
   37    0604015F        LONG RANGE            2,314,196       2,314,196
                          STRIKE--BOMBER.
   38    0604201F        INTEGRATED               14,894          14,894
                          AVIONICS
                          PLANNING AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   39    0604257F        ADVANCED                 34,585          34,585
                          TECHNOLOGY AND
                          SENSORS.
   40    0604288F        NATIONAL                  9,740           9,740
                          AIRBORNE OPS
                          CENTER (NAOC)
                          RECAP.
   41    0604317F        TECHNOLOGY               12,960          12,960
                          TRANSFER.
   42    0604327F        HARD AND DEEPLY          71,501          71,501
                          BURIED TARGET
                          DEFEAT SYSTEM
                          (HDBTDS)
                          PROGRAM.
   43    0604414F        CYBER                    62,618          62,618
                          RESILIENCY OF
                          WEAPON SYSTEMS-
                          ACS.
   46    0604776F        DEPLOYMENT &             28,350          38,350
                          DISTRIBUTION
                          ENTERPRISE R&D.
         ..............      Tanker                             [10,000]
                             prototype.
   48    0604858F        TECH TRANSITION       1,186,075       1,408,875
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Acceleratio                       [100,000]
                             n of
                             Hypersonic
                             Conventiona
                             l Strike
                             Weapon.
         ..............      Low cost                           [80,000]
                             attritable
                             aircraft
                             prototype.
         ..............      Rapid                              [42,800]
                             Sustainment
                             Initiative.
   49    0605230F        GROUND BASED            345,041         414,441
                          STRATEGIC
                          DETERRENT.
         ..............      UPL program                        [69,400]
                             acceleratio
                             n.
   50    0207110F        NEXT GENERATION         503,997         503,997
                          AIR DOMINANCE.
   51    0207455F        THREE                    40,326          40,326
                          DIMENSIONAL
                          LONG-RANGE
                          RADAR (3DELRR).
   52    0208099F        UNIFIED                  29,800          29,800
                          PLATFORM (UP).
   54    0305236F        COMMON DATA              41,880          41,880
                          LINK EXECUTIVE
                          AGENT (CDL EA).
   55    0305601F        MISSION PARTNER          10,074          10,074
                          ENVIRONMENTS.
   56    0306250F        CYBER                   253,825         253,825
                          OPERATIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   57    0306415F        ENABLED CYBER            16,325          16,325
                          ACTIVITIES.
   59    0901410F        CONTRACTING              17,577               0
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SYSTEM.
         ..............      Duplication                       [-17,577]
                             concern.
   60    1203164F        NAVSTAR GLOBAL          286,629         286,629
                          POSITIONING
                          SYSTEM (USER
                          EQUIPMENT)
                          (SPACE).
   61    1203710F        EO/IR WEATHER             7,940           7,940
                          SYSTEMS.
   62    1206422F        WEATHER SYSTEM          138,052         138,052
                          FOLLOW-ON.
   63    1206425F        SPACE SITUATION          39,338          39,338
                          AWARENESS
                          SYSTEMS.
   64    1206434F        MIDTERM POLAR           383,113         383,113
                          MILSATCOM
                          SYSTEM.
   65    1206438F        SPACE CONTROL            91,018          91,018
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   66    1206730F        SPACE SECURITY           45,542          45,542
                          AND DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM.
   67    1206760F        PROTECTED                51,419          51,419
                          TACTICAL
                          ENTERPRISE
                          SERVICE (PTES).
   68    1206761F        PROTECTED                29,776          29,776
                          TACTICAL
                          SERVICE (PTS).
   69    1206855F        PROTECTED                29,379          29,379
                          SATCOM
                          SERVICES
                          (PSCS)--AGGREG
                          ATED.
   70    1206857F        OPERATIONALLY           366,050         316,050
                          RESPONSIVE
                          SPACE.
         ..............      Space RCO                         [-50,000]
                             Solar Power
                             Project--Ea
                             rly to need.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              6,529,943       6,764,566
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION
   71    0604200F        FUTURE ADVANCED          39,602          39,602
                          WEAPON
                          ANALYSIS &
                          PROGRAMS.
   72    0604201F        INTEGRATED               58,531          58,531
                          AVIONICS
                          PLANNING AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   73    0604222F        NUCLEAR WEAPONS           4,468           4,468
                          SUPPORT.
   74    0604270F        ELECTRONIC                1,909           1,909
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   75    0604281F        TACTICAL DATA           207,746         257,746
                          NETWORKS
                          ENTERPRISE.
         ..............      Increase to                        [50,000]
                             accelerate
                             21st
                             Century
                             Battle
                             Management
                             Command and
                             Control.
   76    0604287F        PHYSICAL                 14,421          14,421
                          SECURITY
                          EQUIPMENT.
   77    0604329F        SMALL DIAMETER           73,158          73,158
                          BOMB (SDB)--
                          EMD.
   81    0604429F        AIRBORNE                  7,153           7,153
                          ELECTRONIC
                          ATTACK.
   83    0604602F        ARMAMENT/                58,590          58,590
                          ORDNANCE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   84    0604604F        SUBMUNITIONS...           2,990           2,990
   85    0604617F        AGILE COMBAT             20,028          20,028
                          SUPPORT.
   86    0604618F        JOINT DIRECT             15,787          15,787
                          ATTACK
                          MUNITION.
   87    0604706F        LIFE SUPPORT              8,919           8,919
                          SYSTEMS.
   88    0604735F        COMBAT TRAINING          35,895          35,895
                          RANGES.
   89    0604800F        F-35--EMD......          69,001          69,001
   90    0307581F        JSTARS RECAP...               0          50,000
         ..............      Continue                           [50,000]
                             JSTARS
                             recap GMTI
                             radar
                             development.
   91    0604932F        LONG RANGE              614,920         699,920
                          STANDOFF
                          WEAPON.
         ..............      UPL Program                        [85,000]
                             acceleratio
                             n.
   92    0604933F        ICBM FUZE               172,902         172,902
                          MODERNIZATION.
   97    0605221F        KC-46..........          88,170          88,170
   98    0605223F        ADVANCED PILOT          265,465         265,465
                          TRAINING.
   99    0605229F        COMBAT RESCUE           457,652         457,652
                          HELICOPTER.
  105    0605830F        ACQ WORKFORCE-            3,617           3,617
                          GLOBAL BATTLE
                          MGMT.
  106    0605931F        B-2 DEFENSIVE           261,758         261,758
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SYSTEM.
  107    0101125F        NUCLEAR WEAPONS          91,907          91,907
                          MODERNIZATION.
  108    0207171F        F-15 EPAWSS....         137,095         137,095
  109    0207328F        STAND IN ATTACK          43,175          43,175
                          WEAPON.
  110    0207423F        ADVANCED                 14,888          14,888
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          SYSTEMS.
  111    0207701F        FULL COMBAT               1,015           1,015
                          MISSION
                          TRAINING.
  116    0401310F        C-32 EXECUTIVE            7,943           7,943
                          TRANSPORT
                          RECAPITALIZATI
                          ON.
  117    0401319F        PRESIDENTIAL            673,032         673,032
                          AIRCRAFT
                          RECAPITALIZATI
                          ON (PAR).
  118    0701212F        AUTOMATED TEST           13,653          13,653
                          SYSTEMS.
  119    1203176F        COMBAT SURVIVOR             939             939
                          EVADER LOCATOR.
  120    1203269F        GPS IIIC.......         451,889         451,889
  121    1203940F        SPACE SITUATION          46,668          46,668
                          AWARENESS
                          OPERATIONS.
  122    1206421F        COUNTERSPACE             20,676          20,676
                          SYSTEMS.
  123    1206425F        SPACE SITUATION         134,463         134,463
                          AWARENESS
                          SYSTEMS.
  124    1206426F        SPACE FENCE....          20,215          20,215
  125    1206431F        ADVANCED EHF            151,506         151,506
                          MILSATCOM
                          (SPACE).
  126    1206432F        POLAR MILSATCOM          27,337          27,337
                          (SPACE).
  127    1206433F        WIDEBAND GLOBAL           3,970           3,970
                          SATCOM (SPACE).
  128    1206441F        SPACE BASED              60,565          60,565
                          INFRARED
                          SYSTEM (SBIRS)
                          HIGH EMD.
  129    1206442F        EVOLVED SBIRS..         643,126         743,126
         ..............      Accelerate                        [100,000]
                             sensor
                             development.
  130    1206853F        EVOLVED                 245,447         245,447
                          EXPENDABLE
                          LAUNCH VEHICLE
                          PROGRAM
                          (SPACE)--EMD.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM       5,272,191       5,557,191
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
  131    0604256F        THREAT                   34,256          34,256
                          SIMULATOR
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  132    0604759F        MAJOR T&E                91,844         106,844
                          INVESTMENT.
         ..............      Test                               [15,000]
                             infrastruct
                             ure
                             improvement
                             s.
  133    0605101F        RAND PROJECT             34,614          34,614
                          AIR FORCE.
  135    0605712F        INITIAL                  18,043          18,043
                          OPERATIONAL
                          TEST &
                          EVALUATION.
  136    0605807F        TEST AND                692,784         692,784
                          EVALUATION
                          SUPPORT.
  137    0605826F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          233,924         233,924
                          GLOBAL POWER.
  138    0605827F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          263,488         263,488
                          GLOBAL VIG &
                          COMBAT SYS.
  139    0605828F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          153,591         153,591
                          GLOBAL REACH.
  140    0605829F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          232,315         232,315
                          CYBER,
                          NETWORK, & BUS
                          SYS.
  141    0605830F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          169,868         169,868
                          GLOBAL BATTLE
                          MGMT.
  142    0605831F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          226,219         226,219
                          CAPABILITY
                          INTEGRATION.
  143    0605832F        ACQ WORKFORCE-           38,400          38,400
                          ADVANCED PRGM
                          TECHNOLOGY.
  144    0605833F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          125,761         125,761
                          NUCLEAR
                          SYSTEMS.
  147    0605898F        MANAGEMENT HQ--          10,642          10,642
                          R&D.
  148    0605976F        FACILITIES              162,216         162,216
                          RESTORATION
                          AND
                          MODERNIZATION-
                          -TEST AND
                          EVALUATION
                          SUPPORT.
  149    0605978F        FACILITIES               28,888          28,888
                          SUSTAINMENT--T
                          EST AND
                          EVALUATION
                          SUPPORT.
  150    0606017F        REQUIREMENTS             35,285          35,285
                          ANALYSIS AND
                          MATURATION.
  153    0308602F        ENTEPRISE                20,545          20,545
                          INFORMATION
                          SERVICES (EIS).
  154    0702806F        ACQUISITION AND          12,367          12,367
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
  155    0804731F        GENERAL SKILL             1,448           1,448
                          TRAINING.
  157    1001004F        INTERNATIONAL             3,998           3,998
                          ACTIVITIES.
  158    1206116F        SPACE TEST AND           23,254          23,254
                          TRAINING RANGE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  159    1206392F        SPACE AND               169,912         169,912
                          MISSILE CENTER
                          (SMC) CIVILIAN
                          WORKFORCE.
  160    1206398F        SPACE & MISSILE          10,508          10,508
                          SYSTEMS
                          CENTER--MHA.
  161    1206860F        ROCKET SYSTEMS           19,721          19,721
                          LAUNCH PROGRAM
                          (SPACE).
  162    1206864F        SPACE TEST               25,620          25,620
                          PROGRAM (STP).
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              2,839,511       2,854,511
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         9999999999      CLASSIFIED           16,534,124      16,534,124
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
  165    0604233F        SPECIALIZED              11,344          11,344
                          UNDERGRADUATE
                          FLIGHT
                          TRAINING.
  167    0605018F        AF INTEGRATED            47,287          13,141
                          PERSONNEL AND
                          PAY SYSTEM (AF-
                          IPPS).
         ..............      Poor agile                        [-34,146]
                             development
                             implementat
                             ion and
                             lenghty
                             delivery
                             timeline.
  168    0605024F        ANTI-TAMPER              32,770          32,770
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          EXECUTIVE
                          AGENCY.
  169    0605117F        FOREIGN                  68,368          68,368
                          MATERIEL
                          ACQUISITION
                          AND
                          EXPLOITATION.
  170    0605278F        HC/MC-130 RECAP          32,574          32,574
                          RDT&E.
  171    0606018F        NC3 INTEGRATION          26,112          26,112
  172    0606942F        ASSESSMENTS AND          99,100          99,100
                          EVALUATIONS
                          CYBER
                          VULNERABILITIE
                          S.
  173    0101113F        B-52 SQUADRONS.         280,414         295,214
         ..............      Air Force                          [14,800]
                             requested
                             realignment.
  174    0101122F        AIR-LAUNCHED              5,955           5,955
                          CRUISE MISSILE
                          (ALCM).
  175    0101126F        B-1B SQUADRONS.          76,030          76,030
  176    0101127F        B-2 SQUADRONS..         105,561         105,561
  177    0101213F        MINUTEMAN               156,047         156,047
                          SQUADRONS.
  179    0101316F        WORLDWIDE JOINT          10,442          10,442
                          STRATEGIC
                          COMMUNICATIONS.
  180    0101324F        INTEGRATED               22,833          22,833
                          STRATEGIC
                          PLANNING &
                          ANALYSIS
                          NETWORK.
  181    0101328F        ICBM REENTRY             18,412          18,412
                          VEHICLES.
  183    0102110F        UH-1N                   288,022         288,022
                          REPLACEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  184    0102326F        REGION/SECTOR             9,252           9,252
                          OPERATION
                          CONTROL CENTER
                          MODERNIZATION
                          PROGRAM.
  186    0205219F        MQ-9 UAV.......         115,345         115,345
  188    0207131F        A-10 SQUADRONS.          26,738          26,738
  189    0207133F        F-16 SQUADRONS.         191,564         191,564
  190    0207134F        F-15E SQUADRONS         192,883         192,883
  191    0207136F        MANNED                   15,238          15,238
                          DESTRUCTIVE
                          SUPPRESSION.
  192    0207138F        F-22A SQUADRONS         603,553         603,553
  193    0207142F        F-35 SQUADRONS.         549,501         549,501
  194    0207161F        TACTICAL AIM             37,230          37,230
                          MISSILES.
  195    0207163F        ADVANCED MEDIUM          61,393          61,393
                          RANGE AIR-TO-
                          AIR MISSILE
                          (AMRAAM).
  196    0207227F        COMBAT RESCUE--             647             647
                          PARARESCUE.
  198    0207249F        PRECISION                14,891          14,891
                          ATTACK SYSTEMS
                          PROCUREMENT.
  199    0207253F        COMPASS CALL...          13,901          13,901
  200    0207268F        AIRCRAFT ENGINE         121,203         121,203
                          COMPONENT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  202    0207325F        JOINT AIR-TO-            60,062          60,062
                          SURFACE
                          STANDOFF
                          MISSILE
                          (JASSM).
  203    0207410F        AIR & SPACE             106,102         106,102
                          OPERATIONS
                          CENTER (AOC).
  204    0207412F        CONTROL AND               6,413           6,413
                          REPORTING
                          CENTER (CRC).
  205    0207417F        AIRBORNE                120,664         130,664
                          WARNING AND
                          CONTROL SYSTEM
                          (AWACS).
         ..............      Increase to                        [10,000]
                             accelerate
                             21st
                             Century
                             Battle
                             Management
                             Command and
                             Control.
  206    0207418F        TACTICAL                  2,659           2,659
                          AIRBORNE
                          CONTROL
                          SYSTEMS.
  208    0207431F        COMBAT AIR               10,316          10,316
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          SYSTEM
                          ACTIVITIES.
  209    0207444F        TACTICAL AIR              6,149           6,149
                          CONTROL PARTY-
                          MOD.
  210    0207448F        C2ISR TACTICAL            1,738           1,738
                          DATA LINK.
  211    0207452F        DCAPES.........          13,297          13,297
  212    0207573F        NATIONAL                  1,788           1,788
                          TECHNICAL
                          NUCLEAR
                          FORENSICS.
  213    0207581F        JOINT                    14,888          14,888
                          SURVEILLANCE/
                          TARGET ATTACK
                          RADAR SYSTEM
                          (JSTARS).
  214    0207590F        SEEK EAGLE.....          24,699          24,699
  215    0207601F        USAF MODELING            17,078          17,078
                          AND SIMULATION.
  216    0207605F        WARGAMING AND             6,141           6,141
                          SIMULATION
                          CENTERS.
  218    0207697F        DISTRIBUTED               4,225           4,225
                          TRAINING AND
                          EXERCISES.
  219    0208006F        MISSION                  63,653          63,653
                          PLANNING
                          SYSTEMS.
  220    0208007F        TACTICAL                  6,949           6,949
                          DECEPTION.
  221    0208087F        AF OFFENSIVE             40,526          40,526
                          CYBERSPACE
                          OPERATIONS.
  222    0208088F        AF DEFENSIVE             24,166          24,166
                          CYBERSPACE
                          OPERATIONS.
  223    0208097F        JOINT CYBER              13,000          13,000
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL (JCC2).
  224    0208099F        UNIFIED                  28,759          28,759
                          PLATFORM (UP).
  229    0301017F        GLOBAL SENSOR             3,579           3,579
                          INTEGRATED ON
                          NETWORK (GSIN).
  230    0301112F        NUCLEAR                  29,620          29,620
                          PLANNING AND
                          EXECUTION
                          SYSTEM (NPES).
  237    0301401F        AIR FORCE SPACE           6,633           6,633
                          AND CYBER NON-
                          TRADITIONAL
                          ISR FOR
                          BATTLESPACE
                          AWARENESS.
  238    0302015F        E-4B NATIONAL            57,758          57,758
                          AIRBORNE
                          OPERATIONS
                          CENTER (NAOC).
  240    0303131F        MINIMUM                  99,088          99,088
                          ESSENTIAL
                          EMERGENCY
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          NETWORK
                          (MEECN).
  241    0303133F        HIGH FREQUENCY           51,612          51,612
                          RADIO SYSTEMS.
  242    0303140F        INFORMATION              34,612          34,612
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  244    0303142F        GLOBAL FORCE              2,170           2,170
                          MANAGEMENT--DA
                          TA INITIATIVE.
  246    0304260F        AIRBORNE SIGINT         106,873         106,873
                          ENTERPRISE.
  247    0304310F        COMMERCIAL                3,472           3,472
                          ECONOMIC
                          ANALYSIS.
  250    0305015F        C2 AIR                    8,608           8,608
                          OPERATIONS
                          SUITE--C2 INFO
                          SERVICES.
  251    0305020F        CCMD                      1,586           1,586
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY.
  252    0305099F        GLOBAL AIR                4,492           4,492
                          TRAFFIC
                          MANAGEMENT
                          (GATM).
  254    0305111F        WEATHER SERVICE          26,942          26,942
  255    0305114F        AIR TRAFFIC               6,271           6,271
                          CONTROL,
                          APPROACH, AND
                          LANDING SYSTEM
                          (ATCALS).
  256    0305116F        AERIAL TARGETS.           8,383           8,383
  259    0305128F        SECURITY AND                418             418
                          INVESTIGATIVE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  261    0305146F        DEFENSE JOINT             3,845           3,845
                          COUNTERINTELLI
                          GENCE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  268    0305202F        DRAGON U-2.....          48,518          48,518
  270    0305206F        AIRBORNE                175,334         175,334
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          SYSTEMS.
  271    0305207F        MANNED                   14,223          14,223
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          SYSTEMS.
  272    0305208F        DISTRIBUTED              24,554          24,554
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  273    0305220F        RQ-4 UAV.......         221,690         221,690
  274    0305221F        NETWORK-CENTRIC          14,288          14,288
                          COLLABORATIVE
                          TARGETING.
  275    0305238F        NATO AGS.......          51,527          51,527
  276    0305240F        SUPPORT TO DCGS          26,579          26,579
                          ENTERPRISE.
  278    0305600F        INTERNATIONAL             8,464           8,464
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          TECHNOLOGY AND
                          ARCHITECTURES.
  280    0305881F        RAPID CYBER               4,303           4,303
                          ACQUISITION.
  284    0305984F        PERSONNEL                 2,466           2,466
                          RECOVERY
                          COMMAND & CTRL
                          (PRC2).
  285    0307577F        INTELLIGENCE              4,117           4,117
                          MISSION DATA
                          (IMD).
  287    0401115F        C-130 AIRLIFT           105,988         105,988
                          SQUADRON.
  288    0401119F        C-5 AIRLIFT              25,071          25,071
                          SQUADRONS (IF).
  289    0401130F        C-17 AIRCRAFT            48,299          48,299
                          (IF).
  290    0401132F        C-130J PROGRAM.          15,409          15,409
  291    0401134F        LARGE AIRCRAFT            4,334           4,334
                          IR
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S (LAIRCM).
  292    0401218F        KC-135S........           3,493           3,493
  293    0401219F        KC-10S.........           6,569           6,569
  294    0401314F        OPERATIONAL               3,172           3,172
                          SUPPORT
                          AIRLIFT.
  295    0401318F        CV-22..........          18,502          18,502
  296    0401840F        AMC COMMAND AND           1,688           1,688
                          CONTROL SYSTEM.
  297    0408011F        SPECIAL TACTICS           2,541           2,541
                          / COMBAT
                          CONTROL.
  298    0702207F        DEPOT                     1,897           1,897
                          MAINTENANCE
                          (NON-IF).
  299    0708055F        MAINTENANCE,             50,933          15,873
                          REPAIR &
                          OVERHAUL
                          SYSTEM.
         ..............      Poor agile                        [-35,060]
                             development
                             implementat
                             ion.
  300    0708610F        LOGISTICS                13,787          13,787
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          (LOGIT).
  301    0708611F        SUPPORT SYSTEMS           4,497           4,497
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  302    0804743F        OTHER FLIGHT              2,022           2,022
                          TRAINING.
  303    0808716F        OTHER PERSONNEL             108             108
                          ACTIVITIES.
  304    0901202F        JOINT PERSONNEL           2,023           2,023
                          RECOVERY
                          AGENCY.
  305    0901218F        CIVILIAN                  3,772           3,772
                          COMPENSATION
                          PROGRAM.
  306    0901220F        PERSONNEL                 6,358           6,358
                          ADMINISTRATION.
  307    0901226F        AIR FORCE                 1,418           1,418
                          STUDIES AND
                          ANALYSIS
                          AGENCY.
  308    0901538F        FINANCIAL                99,734          87,918
                          MANAGEMENT
                          INFORMATION
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Poor agile                        [-11,816]
                             development
                             implementat
                             ion.
  309    1201921F        SERVICE SUPPORT          14,161          14,161
                          TO STRATCOM--
                          SPACE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  310    1202247F        AF TENCAP......          26,986          26,986
  311    1203001F        FAMILY OF                80,168          80,168
                          ADVANCED BLOS
                          TERMINALS (FAB-
                          T).
  312    1203110F        SATELLITE                17,808          17,808
                          CONTROL
                          NETWORK
                          (SPACE).
  314    1203165F        NAVSTAR GLOBAL            8,937           8,937
                          POSITIONING
                          SYSTEM (SPACE
                          AND CONTROL
                          SEGMENTS).
  315    1203173F        SPACE AND                59,935          59,935
                          MISSILE TEST
                          AND EVALUATION
                          CENTER.
  316    1203174F        SPACE                    21,019          21,019
                          INNOVATION,
                          INTEGRATION
                          AND RAPID
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  317    1203179F        INTEGRATED                8,568           8,568
                          BROADCAST
                          SERVICE (IBS).
  318    1203182F        SPACELIFT RANGE          10,641          10,641
                          SYSTEM (SPACE).
  319    1203265F        GPS III SPACE           144,543         144,543
                          SEGMENT.
  320    1203400F        SPACE                    16,278          16,278
                          SUPERIORITY
                          INTELLIGENCE.
  321    1203614F        JSPOC MISSION            72,256          62,256
                          SYSTEM.
         ..............      Assumed                           [-10,000]
                             cost
                             savings.
  322    1203620F        NATIONAL SPACE           42,209          42,209
                          DEFENSE CENTER.
  325    1203913F        NUDET DETECTION          19,778          19,778
                          SYSTEM (SPACE).
  326    1203940F        SPACE SITUATION          19,572          19,572
                          AWARENESS
                          OPERATIONS.
  327    1206423F        GLOBAL                  513,235         513,235
                          POSITIONING
                          SYSTEM III--
                          OPERATIONAL
                          CONTROL
                          SEGMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL             22,891,740      22,825,518
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RESEARCH,      40,178,343      40,753,244
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          AF.
         ..............
         ..............  RESEARCH,
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          DW
         ..............  BASIC RESEARCH
    1    0601000BR       DTRA BASIC               37,023          37,023
                          RESEARCH.
    2    0601101E        DEFENSE                 422,130         429,630
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCES.
         ..............      Basic                               [5,000]
                             research
                             program
                             increase.
         ..............      Critical                            [2,500]
                             materials.
    3    0601110D8Z      BASIC RESEARCH           42,702          52,702
                          INITIATIVES.
         ..............      Quantum                             [5,000]
                             information
                             sciences.
         ..............      University-                         [5,000]
                             lab
                             research
                             partnership.
    4    0601117E        BASIC                    47,825          57,825
                          OPERATIONAL
                          MEDICAL
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCE.
         ..............      TBI                                [10,000]
                             Treatment
                             for blast
                             injuries.
    5    0601120D8Z      NATIONAL                 85,919          85,919
                          DEFENSE
                          EDUCATION
                          PROGRAM.
    6    0601228D8Z      HISTORICALLY             30,412          30,412
                          BLACK COLLEGES
                          AND
                          UNIVERSITIES/
                          MINORITY
                          INSTITUTIONS.
    7    0601384BP       CHEMICAL AND             42,103          42,103
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL BASIC          708,114         735,614
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
    8    0602000D8Z      JOINT MUNITIONS          19,170          21,670
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Insensitive                         [2,500]
                             munitions.
    9    0602115E        BIOMEDICAL              101,300         101,300
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   11    0602234D8Z      LINCOLN                  51,596          51,596
                          LABORATORY
                          RESEARCH
                          PROGRAM.
   12    0602251D8Z      APPLIED                  60,688          53,188
                          RESEARCH FOR
                          THE
                          ADVANCEMENT OF
                          S&T PRIORITIES.
         ..............      General                            [-7,500]
                             program
                             reduction.
   13    0602303E        INFORMATION &           395,317         395,317
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   14    0602383E        BIOLOGICAL               38,640          38,640
                          WARFARE
                          DEFENSE.
   15    0602384BP       CHEMICAL AND            192,674         192,674
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM.
   16    0602668D8Z      CYBER SECURITY           14,969          14,969
                          RESEARCH.
   17    0602702E        TACTICAL                335,466         332,966
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      General                             [2,500]
                             program
                             increase.
         ..............      MAD-FIRES                          [-5,000]
                             reduction.
   18    0602715E        MATERIALS AND           226,898         211,898
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      General                           [-15,000]
                             program
                             reduction.
   19    0602716E        ELECTRONICS             333,847         333,847
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   20    0602718BR       COUNTER WEAPONS         161,151         161,151
                          OF MASS
                          DESTRUCTION
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   21    0602751D8Z      SOFTWARE                  9,300           9,300
                          ENGINEERING
                          INSTITUTE
                          (SEI) APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   22    1160401BB       SOF TECHNOLOGY           35,921          35,921
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,976,937       1,954,437
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
   23    0603000D8Z      JOINT MUNITIONS          25,598          25,598
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   24    0603122D8Z      COMBATING               125,271         111,271
                          TERRORISM
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............      General                           [-14,000]
                             program
                             reduction.
   25    0603133D8Z      FOREIGN                  24,532          24,532
                          COMPARATIVE
                          TESTING.
   27    0603160BR       COUNTER WEAPONS         299,858         299,858
                          OF MASS
                          DESTRUCTION
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   28    0603176C        ADVANCED                 13,017          13,017
                          CONCEPTS AND
                          PERFORMANCE
                          ASSESSMENT.
   29    0603178C        WEAPONS                       0          13,400
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      MDA UPL:                           [13,400]
                             Accelerate
                             hypersonic
                             missile
                             defense.
   31    0603180C        ADVANCED                 20,365          42,565
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Accelerate                         [22,200]
                             hypersonic
                             missile
                             defense.
   32    0603225D8Z      JOINT DOD-DOE            18,644          18,644
                          MUNITIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   34    0603286E        ADVANCED                277,603         282,603
                          AEROSPACE
                          SYSTEMS.
         ..............      Hypersonics                         [5,000]
                             weapons
                             programs
                             development
                             and
                             transition.
   35    0603287E        SPACE PROGRAMS          254,671         364,671
                          AND TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Blackjack                         [110,000]
                             increase.
   36    0603288D8Z      ANALYTIC                 19,472          19,472
                          ASSESSMENTS.
   37    0603289D8Z      ADVANCED                 37,263          37,263
                          INNOVATIVE
                          ANALYSIS AND
                          CONCEPTS.
   38    0603291D8Z      ADVANCED                 13,621          13,621
                          INNOVATIVE
                          ANALYSIS AND
                          CONCEPTS--MHA.
   39    0603294C        COMMON KILL             189,753         189,753
                          VEHICLE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   40    0603342D8W      DEFENSE                  29,364          29,864
                          INNOVATION
                          UNIT
                          EXPERIMENTAL
                          (DIUX).
         ..............      Defense                               [500]
                             technology
                             innovation.
   41    0603375D8Z      TECHNOLOGY               83,143         103,143
                          INNOVATION.
         ..............      Commercial                         [20,000]
                             SAR
                             satellites.
   42    0603384BP       CHEMICAL AND            142,826         142,826
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM--ADVAN
                          CED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   43    0603527D8Z      RETRACT LARCH..         161,128         161,128
   44    0603618D8Z      JOINT                    12,918          12,918
                          ELECTRONIC
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   45    0603648D8Z      JOINT                   106,049         106,049
                          CAPABILITY
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEMONSTRATIONS.
   46    0603662D8Z      NETWORKED                12,696           5,196
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          CAPABILITIES.
         ..............      General                            [-7,500]
                             program
                             reduction.
   47    0603680D8Z      DEFENSE-WIDE            114,637         121,637
                          MANUFACTURING
                          SCIENCE AND
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Enhancing                           [5,000]
                             cybersecuri
                             ty for
                             small
                             vendors.
         ..............      Eye                                 [2,000]
                             protection
                             system.
   48    0603680S        MANUFACTURING            49,667          52,167
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      General                             [2,500]
                             program
                             increase.
   49    0603699D8Z      EMERGING                 48,338          48,338
                          CAPABILITIES
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   50    0603712S        GENERIC                  11,778          12,778
                          LOGISTICS R&D
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEMONSTRATIONS.
         ..............      General                             [1,000]
                             program
                             increase.
   52    0603716D8Z      STRATEGIC                76,514          86,514
                          ENVIRONMENTAL
                          RESEARCH
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Readiness                          [10,000]
                             Increase.
   53    0603720S        MICROELECTRONIC         168,931         173,931
                          S TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND SUPPORT.
         ..............      Tunable                             [5,000]
                             filter,
                             support for
                             microelectr
                             onics
                             development.
   54    0603727D8Z      JOINT                     5,992           5,992
                          WARFIGHTING
                          PROGRAM.
   55    0603739E        ADVANCED                111,099         118,599
                          ELECTRONICS
                          TECHNOLOGIES.
         ..............      Support for                         [7,500]
                             the
                             Electronics
                             Resurgence
                             Initiative.
   56    0603760E        COMMAND,                185,984         185,984
                          CONTROL AND
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          SYSTEMS.
   57    0603766E        NETWORK-CENTRIC         438,569         428,569
                          WARFARE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      General                           [-10,000]
                             program
                             reduction.
   58    0603767E        SENSOR                  190,128         191,628
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Sensors and                         [1,500]
                             processing
                             systems
                             technology.
   59    0603769D8Z      DISTRIBUTED              13,564          13,564
                          LEARNING
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   60    0603781D8Z      SOFTWARE                 15,050          15,050
                          ENGINEERING
                          INSTITUTE.
   61    0603826D8Z      QUICK REACTION           69,626          59,626
                          SPECIAL
                          PROJECTS.
         ..............      General                           [-10,000]
                             program
                             reduction.
   62    0603833D8Z      ENGINEERING              19,415          19,415
                          SCIENCE &
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   63    0603924D8Z      HIGH ENERGY              69,533          69,533
                          LASER ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
   64    0603941D8Z      TEST &                   96,389         111,389
                          EVALUATION
                          SCIENCE &
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Hypersonics                        [10,000]
                             and
                             directed
                             energy test.
         ..............      Workforce                           [5,000]
                             development.
   65    0604055D8Z      OPERATIONAL              40,582          50,582
                          ENERGY
                          CAPABILITY
                          IMPROVEMENT.
         ..............      Readiness                          [10,000]
                             Increase.
   66    0303310D8Z      CWMD SYSTEMS...          26,644          26,644
   67    1160402BB       SOF ADVANCED             79,380          79,380
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  300    8888            NATIONAL                      0         150,000
                          SECURITY
                          INNOVATION
                          ACTIVITIES.
         ..............      Establish                         [150,000]
                             office for
                             capital
                             investment.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              3,699,612       4,038,712
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND PROTOTYPES
   68    0603161D8Z      NUCLEAR AND              28,140          28,140
                          CONVENTIONAL
                          PHYSICAL
                          SECURITY
                          EQUIPMENT
                          RDT&E ADC&P.
   69    0603600D8Z      WALKOFF........          92,222          92,222
   70    0603821D8Z      ACQUISITION               2,506           2,506
                          ENTERPRISE
                          DATA &
                          INFORMATION
                          SERVICES.
   71    0603851D8Z      ENVIRONMENTAL            40,016          50,016
                          SECURITY
                          TECHNICAL
                          CERTIFICATION
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Readiness                          [10,000]
                             Increase.
   72    0603881C        BALLISTIC               214,173         398,273
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          TERMINAL
                          DEFENSE
                          SEGMENT.
         ..............      MDA UPL:                          [184,100]
                             USFK JEON.
   73    0603882C        BALLISTIC               926,359         718,359
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          MIDCOURSE
                          DEFENSE
                          SEGMENT.
         ..............      Reduce FY19                      [-208,000]
                             Numbers.
   74    0603884BP       CHEMICAL AND            129,886         129,886
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM--DEM/
                          VAL.
   75    0603884C        BALLISTIC               220,876         244,876
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          SENSORS.
         ..............      MDA UPL:                           [24,000]
                             USFK JEON.
   76    0603890C        BMD ENABLING            540,926         540,926
                          PROGRAMS.
   77    0603891C        SPECIAL                 422,348         422,348
                          PROGRAMS--MDA.
   78    0603892C        AEGIS BMD......         767,539         767,539
   81    0603896C        BALLISTIC               475,168         425,168
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL,
                          BATTLE
                          MANAGEMENT AND
                          COMMUNICATI.
         ..............      Inconsisten                       [-50,000]
                             t
                             capability
                             delivery.
   82    0603898C        BALLISTIC                48,767          48,767
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE JOINT
                          WARFIGHTER
                          SUPPORT.
   83    0603904C        MISSILE DEFENSE          54,925          54,925
                          INTEGRATION &
                          OPERATIONS
                          CENTER (MDIOC).
   84    0603906C        REGARDING                16,916          16,916
                          TRENCH.
   85    0603907C        SEA BASED X-            149,715         116,715
                          BAND RADAR
                          (SBX).
         ..............      Reduce FY19                       [-33,000]
                             Numbers.
   86    0603913C        ISRAELI                 300,000         300,000
                          COOPERATIVE
                          PROGRAMS.
   87    0603914C        BALLISTIC               365,681         437,581
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE TEST.
         ..............      MDA UPL:                           [71,900]
                             USFK JEON.
   88    0603915C        BALLISTIC               517,852         486,352
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          TARGETS.
         ..............      MDA UPL:                            [4,500]
                             USFK JEON.
         ..............      Reduce FY19                       [-36,000]
                             Numbers.
   89    0603920D8Z      HUMANITARIAN             11,347          11,347
                          DEMINING.
   90    0603923D8Z      COALITION                 8,528           8,528
                          WARFARE.
   91    0604016D8Z      DEPARTMENT OF             3,477           8,477
                          DEFENSE
                          CORROSION
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Corrosion                           [5,000]
                             prevention.
   92    0604115C        TECHNOLOGY              148,822         228,822
                          MATURATION
                          INITIATIVES.
         ..............      Laser                              [80,000]
                             scaling for
                             boost phase
                             intercept.
   93    0604132D8Z      MISSILE DEFEAT           58,607          58,607
                          PROJECT.
   94    0604134BR       COUNTER                  12,993          12,993
                          IMPROVISED-
                          THREAT
                          DEMONSTRATION,
                          PROTOTYPE
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          AND TESTING.
   95    0604181C        HYPERSONIC              120,444         130,944
                          DEFENSE.
         ..............      Accelerate                         [10,500]
                             hypersonic
                             missile
                             defense.
   96    0604250D8Z      ADVANCED              1,431,702       1,481,702
                          INNOVATIVE
                          TECHNOLOGIES.
         ..............      Quartermast                        [50,000]
                             er
                             Pathfinder.
   97    0604294D8Z      TRUSTED &               233,142         238,642
                          ASSURED
                          MICROELECTRONI
                          CS.
         ..............      New trust                           [5,500]
                             approach
                             development.
   98    0604331D8Z      RAPID                    99,333          99,333
                          PROTOTYPING
                          PROGRAM.
   99    0604400D8Z      DEPARTMENT OF             3,781           3,781
                          DEFENSE (DOD)
                          UNMANNED
                          SYSTEM COMMON
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  100    0604673C        PACIFIC                  95,765          95,765
                          DISCRIMINATING
                          RADAR.
  101    0604682D8Z      WARGAMING AND             3,768           3,768
                          SUPPORT FOR
                          STRATEGIC
                          ANALYSIS (SSA).
  103    0604826J        JOINT C5                 22,435          22,435
                          CAPABILITY
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          INTEGRATION
                          AND
                          INTEROPERABILI
                          TY ASSESSMENTS.
  104    0604873C        LONG RANGE              164,562         164,562
                          DISCRIMINATION
                          RADAR (LRDR).
  105    0604874C        IMPROVED                561,220         421,820
                          HOMELAND
                          DEFENSE
                          INTERCEPTORS.
         ..............      Reduce FY19                      [-139,400]
                             Numbers.
  106    0604876C        BALLISTIC                61,017          61,017
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          TERMINAL
                          DEFENSE
                          SEGMENT TEST.
  107    0604878C        AEGIS BMD TEST.          95,756          95,756
  108    0604879C        BALLISTIC                81,001          81,001
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE SENSOR
                          TEST.
  109    0604880C        LAND-BASED SM-3          27,692          27,692
                          (LBSM3).
  111    0604887C        BALLISTIC                81,934          72,634
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          MIDCOURSE
                          SEGMENT TEST.
         ..............      Reduce FY19                        [-9,300]
                             Numbers.
  112    0604894C        MULTI-OBJECT              8,256           8,256
                          KILL VEHICLE.
  113    0300206R        ENTERPRISE                2,600           2,600
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SYSTEMS.
  114    0303191D8Z      JOINT                     3,104           3,104
                          ELECTROMAGNETI
                          C TECHNOLOGY
                          (JET) PROGRAM.
  115    0305103C        CYBER SECURITY              985             985
                          INITIATIVE.
  116    1206893C        SPACE TRACKING           36,955          36,955
                          & SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM.
  117    1206895C        BALLISTIC                16,484          89,484
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE SYSTEM
                          SPACE PROGRAMS.
         ..............      MDA UPL:                           [73,000]
                             Initiate
                             missile
                             defense
                             tracking
                             system.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              8,709,725       8,752,525
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATION
  118    0604161D8Z      NUCLEAR AND               8,333           8,333
                          CONVENTIONAL
                          PHYSICAL
                          SECURITY
                          EQUIPMENT
                          RDT&E SDD.
  119    0604165D8Z      PROMPT GLOBAL           263,414         263,414
                          STRIKE
                          CAPABILITY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  120    0604384BP       CHEMICAL AND            388,701         388,701
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM--EMD.
  121    0604771D8Z      JOINT TACTICAL           19,503          19,503
                          INFORMATION
                          DISTRIBUTION
                          SYSTEM (JTIDS).
  122    0605000BR       COUNTER WEAPONS           6,163           6,163
                          OF MASS
                          DESTRUCTION
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  123    0605013BL       INFORMATION              11,988               0
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Lengthy                           [-11,988]
                             delivery
                             timelines.
  124    0605021SE       HOMELAND                    296             296
                          PERSONNEL
                          SECURITY
                          INITIATIVE.
  125    0605022D8Z      DEFENSE                   1,489           1,489
                          EXPORTABILITY
                          PROGRAM.
  126    0605027D8Z      OUSD(C) IT                9,590           9,590
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          INITIATIVES.
  127    0605070S        DOD ENTERPRISE            3,173           3,173
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATION.
  128    0605075D8Z      DCMO POLICY AND           2,105           3,105
                          INTEGRATION.
         ..............      Data and                            [1,000]
                             advanced
                             analytics.
  129    0605080S        DEFENSE AGENCY           21,156          21,156
                          INITIATIVES
                          (DAI)--FINANCI
                          AL SYSTEM.
  130    0605090S        DEFENSE RETIRED          10,731          10,731
                          AND ANNUITANT
                          PAY SYSTEM
                          (DRAS).
  132    0605210D8Z      DEFENSE-WIDE              6,374               0
                          ELECTRONIC
                          PROCUREMENT
                          CAPABILITIES.
         ..............      Duplication                        [-6,374]
                             concern.
  133    0605294D8Z      TRUSTED &                56,178          58,678
                          ASSURED
                          MICROELECTRONI
                          CS.
         ..............      New trust                           [2,500]
                             approach
                             development.
  134    0303141K        GLOBAL COMBAT             2,512           2,512
                          SUPPORT SYSTEM.
  135    0305304D8Z      DOD ENTERPRISE            2,435           2,435
                          ENERGY
                          INFORMATION
                          MANAGEMENT
                          (EEIM).
  136    0305310D8Z      CWMD SYSTEMS:            17,048          17,048
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM         831,189         816,327
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         9999999999      CLASSIFIED               45,604          45,604
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
  137    0604774D8Z      DEFENSE                   6,661           6,661
                          READINESS
                          REPORTING
                          SYSTEM (DRRS).
  138    0604875D8Z      JOINT SYSTEMS             4,088           4,088
                          ARCHITECTURE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  139    0604940D8Z      CENTRAL TEST            258,796         268,796
                          AND EVALUATION
                          INVESTMENT
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          (CTEIP).
         ..............      Advanced                           [10,000]
                             hypersonic
                             wind tunnel
                             experimenta
                             tion.
  140    0604942D8Z      ASSESSMENTS AND          31,356          31,356
                          EVALUATIONS.
  141    0605001E        MISSION SUPPORT          65,646          65,646
  142    0605100D8Z      JOINT MISSION            84,184          89,184
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          TEST
                          CAPABILITY
                          (JMETC).
         ..............      Cyber range                         [5,000]
                             capacity
                             and
                             development.
  143    0605104D8Z      TECHNICAL                22,576          17,576
                          STUDIES,
                          SUPPORT AND
                          ANALYSIS.
         ..............      General                            [-5,000]
                             program
                             reduction.
  144    0605126J        JOINT                    52,565          52,565
                          INTEGRATED AIR
                          AND MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          ORGANIZATION
                          (JIAMDO).
  146    0605142D8Z      SYSTEMS                  38,872          38,872
                          ENGINEERING.
  147    0605151D8Z      STUDIES AND               3,534           3,534
                          ANALYSIS
                          SUPPORT--OSD.
  148    0605161D8Z      NUCLEAR MATTERS-          5,050           5,050
                          PHYSICAL
                          SECURITY.
  149    0605170D8Z      SUPPORT TO               11,450          11,450
                          NETWORKS AND
                          INFORMATION
                          INTEGRATION.
  150    0605200D8Z      GENERAL SUPPORT           1,693           1,693
                          TO USD
                          (INTELLIGENCE).
  151    0605384BP       CHEMICAL AND            102,883         102,883
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM.
  159    0605790D8Z      SMALL BUSINESS            2,545           2,545
                          INNOVATION
                          RESEARCH
                          (SBIR)/ SMALL
                          BUSINESS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          TRANSFER.
  160    0605798D8Z      DEFENSE                  24,487          24,487
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          ANALYSIS.
  161    0605801KA       DEFENSE                  56,853          56,853
                          TECHNICAL
                          INFORMATION
                          CENTER (DTIC).
  162    0605803SE       R&D IN SUPPORT           24,914          24,914
                          OF DOD
                          ENLISTMENT,
                          TESTING AND
                          EVALUATION.
  163    0605804D8Z      DEVELOPMENT              20,179          25,179
                          TEST AND
                          EVALUATION.
         ..............      Improve                             [5,000]
                             software
                             testing
                             capabilitie
                             s.
  164    0605898E        MANAGEMENT HQ--          13,643          13,643
                          R&D.
  165    0605998KA       MANAGEMENT HQ--           4,124           4,124
                          DEFENSE
                          TECHNICAL
                          INFORMATION
                          CENTER (DTIC).
  166    0606100D8Z      BUDGET AND                5,768           5,768
                          PROGRAM
                          ASSESSMENTS.
  167    0606225D8Z      ODNA TECHNOLOGY           1,030           1,030
                          AND RESOURCE
                          ANALYSIS.
  168    0606589D8W      DEFENSE DIGITAL           1,000           1,000
                          SERVICE (DDS)
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          SUPPORT.
  169    0606942C        ASSESSMENTS AND           3,400           3,400
                          EVALUATIONS
                          CYBER
                          VULNERABILITIE
                          S.
  170    0606942S        ASSESSMENTS AND           4,000           4,000
                          EVALUATIONS
                          CYBER
                          VULNERABILITIE
                          S.
  171    0203345D8Z      DEFENSE                   3,008           3,008
                          OPERATIONS
                          SECURITY
                          INITIATIVE
                          (DOSI).
  172    0204571J        JOINT STAFF               6,658           6,658
                          ANALYTICAL
                          SUPPORT.
  175    0303166J        SUPPORT TO                  652             652
                          INFORMATION
                          OPERATIONS
                          (IO)
                          CAPABILITIES.
  176    0303260D8Z      DEFENSE                   1,005           1,005
                          MILITARY
                          DECEPTION
                          PROGRAM OFFICE
                          (DMDPO).
  177    0305172K        COMBINED                 21,363          21,363
                          ADVANCED
                          APPLICATIONS.
  180    0305245D8Z      INTELLIGENCE            109,529         109,529
                          CAPABILITIES
                          AND INNOVATION
                          INVESTMENTS.
  181    0306310D8Z      CWMD SYSTEMS:             1,244           1,244
                          RDT&E
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
  184    0804768J        COCOM EXERCISE           42,940          42,940
                          ENGAGEMENT AND
                          TRAINING
                          TRANSFORMATION
                          (CE2T2)--NON-
                          MHA.
  185    0901598C        MANAGEMENT HQ--          28,626          28,626
                          MDA.
  187    0903235K        JOINT SERVICE             5,104           5,104
                          PROVIDER (JSP).
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,117,030       1,132,030
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         9999999999      CLASSIFIED            3,877,898       3,887,898
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............      Classified                         [10,000]
                             increase.
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT
  189    0604130V        ENTERPRISE                9,750           9,750
                          SECURITY
                          SYSTEM (ESS).
  190    0605127T        REGIONAL                  1,855           1,855
                          INTERNATIONAL
                          OUTREACH (RIO)
                          AND
                          PARTNERSHIP
                          FOR PEACE
                          INFORMATION
                          MANA.
  191    0605147T        OVERSEAS                    304             304
                          HUMANITARIAN
                          ASSISTANCE
                          SHARED
                          INFORMATION
                          SYSTEM
                          (OHASIS).
  192    0607210D8Z      INDUSTRIAL BASE          10,376          10,376
                          ANALYSIS AND
                          SUSTAINMENT
                          SUPPORT.
  193    0607310D8Z      CWMD SYSTEMS:             5,915           5,915
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  194    0607327T        GLOBAL THEATER            5,869           5,869
                          SECURITY
                          COOPERATION
                          MANAGEMENT
                          INFORMATION
                          SYSTEMS (G-
                          TSCMIS).
  195    0607384BP       CHEMICAL AND             48,741          48,741
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          (OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT).
  196    0208043J        PLANNING AND              3,037           3,037
                          DECISION AID
                          SYSTEM (PDAS).
  197    0208045K        C4I                      62,814          62,814
                          INTEROPERABILI
                          TY.
  203    0302019K        DEFENSE INFO             16,561          16,561
                          INFRASTRUCTURE
                          ENGINEERING
                          AND
                          INTEGRATION.
  204    0303126K        LONG-HAUL                14,769          14,769
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          -DCS.
  205    0303131K        MINIMUM                  17,579          17,579
                          ESSENTIAL
                          EMERGENCY
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          NETWORK
                          (MEECN).
  207    0303136G        KEY MANAGEMENT           31,737          31,737
                          INFRASTRUCTURE
                          (KMI).
  208    0303140D8Z      INFORMATION               7,940           7,940
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  209    0303140G        INFORMATION             229,252         229,252
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  210    0303140K        INFORMATION              19,611          19,611
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  211    0303150K        GLOBAL COMMAND           46,900          46,900
                          AND CONTROL
                          SYSTEM.
  212    0303153K        DEFENSE                   7,570           7,570
                          SPECTRUM
                          ORGANIZATION.
  213    0303228K        JOINT                     7,947           7,947
                          INFORMATION
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          (JIE).
  215    0303430K        FEDERAL                  39,400          39,400
                          INVESTIGATIVE
                          SERVICES
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY.
  224    0305186D8Z      POLICY R&D                6,262           3,262
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............      General                            [-3,000]
                             program
                             reduction.
  225    0305199D8Z      NET CENTRICITY.          16,780          16,780
  227    0305208BB       DISTRIBUTED               6,286           6,286
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  230    0305208K        DISTRIBUTED               2,970           2,970
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  233    0305327V        INSIDER THREAT.           5,954          10,954
         ..............      Personnel                           [5,000]
                             security
                             and
                             continuous
                             evaluation.
  234    0305387D8Z      HOMELAND                  2,198           2,198
                          DEFENSE
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          TRANSFER
                          PROGRAM.
  240    0307577D8Z      INTELLIGENCE              6,889           6,889
                          MISSION DATA
                          (IMD).
  242    0708012K        LOGISTICS                 1,317           1,317
                          SUPPORT
                          ACTIVITIES.
  243    0708012S        PACIFIC                   1,770           1,770
                          DISASTER
                          CENTERS.
  244    0708047S        DEFENSE                   1,805           1,805
                          PROPERTY
                          ACCOUNTABILITY
                          SYSTEM.
  246    1105219BB       MQ-9 UAV.......          18,403          18,403
  248    1160403BB       AVIATION                184,993         184,993
                          SYSTEMS.
  249    1160405BB       INTELLIGENCE             10,625          10,625
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  250    1160408BB       OPERATIONAL             102,307         102,307
                          ENHANCEMENTS.
  251    1160431BB       WARRIOR SYSTEMS          46,942          46,942
  252    1160432BB       SPECIAL                   2,479           2,479
                          PROGRAMS.
  253    1160434BB       UNMANNED ISR...          27,270          27,270
  254    1160480BB       SOF TACTICAL              1,121           1,121
                          VEHICLES.
  255    1160483BB       MARITIME                 42,471          42,471
                          SYSTEMS.
  256    1160489BB       GLOBAL VIDEO              4,780           4,780
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  257    1160490BB       OPERATIONAL              12,176          12,176
                          ENHANCEMENTS
                          INTELLIGENCE.
  258    1203610K        TELEPORT                  2,323           2,323
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              4,973,946       4,985,946
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RESEARCH,      22,016,553      22,415,591
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          DW.
         ..............
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          DEFENSE
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
    1    0605118OTE      OPERATIONAL              85,685          85,685
                          TEST AND
                          EVALUATION.
    2    0605131OTE      LIVE FIRE TEST           64,332          64,332
                          AND EVALUATION.
    3    0605814OTE      OPERATIONAL              70,992          81,892
                          TEST
                          ACTIVITIES AND
                          ANALYSES.
         ..............      Increase                           [10,900]
                             for test
                             and
                             evaluation
                             technologie
                             s.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                221,009         231,909
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL                   221,009         231,909
                          OPERATIONAL
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          DEFENSE.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RDT&E....      91,056,950      92,216,538
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS 
              CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION  FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of
                                                    Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                     FY 2019          Senate
  Line             Program Element                          Item                     Request        Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, ARMY
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   56    0603327A                            AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS              1,000           1,000
                                              ENGINEERING.
   58    0603627A                            SMOKE, OBSCURANT AND TARGET                  1,500           1,500
                                              DEFEATING SYS-ADV DEV.
   61    0603747A                            SOLDIER SUPPORT AND SURVIVABILITY.           3,000           3,000
   76    0604117A                            MANEUVER--SHORT RANGE AIR DEFENSE           23,000          23,000
                                              (M-SHORAD).
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT                 28,500          28,500
                                              DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
   88    0604328A                            TRACTOR CAGE......................          12,000          12,000
  100    0604741A                            AIR DEFENSE COMMAND, CONTROL AND           119,300         119,300
                                              INTELLIGENCE--ENG DEV.
  125    0605032A                            TRACTOR TIRE......................          66,760          66,760
  128    0605035A                            COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES              2,670           2,670
                                              (CIRCM).
  136    0605051A                            AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY DEVELOPMENT          34,933          34,933
  147    0303032A                            TROJAN--RH12......................           1,200           1,200
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &              236,863         236,863
                                              DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
  184    0607131A                            WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS PRODUCT                2,548           2,548
                                              IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS.
  185    0607133A                            TRACTOR SMOKE.....................           7,780           7,780
  206    0203801A                            MISSILE/AIR DEFENSE PRODUCT                  2,000           2,000
                                              IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
  209    0205402A                            INTEGRATED BASE DEFENSE--                    8,000           8,000
                                              OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEV.
  216    0303028A                            SECURITY AND INTELLIGENCE                   23,199          23,199
                                              ACTIVITIES.
  226    0305206A                            AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS...          14,000          14,000
  231    0307665A                            BIOMETRICS ENABLED INTELLIGENCE...           2,214           2,214
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS                59,741          59,741
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST          325,104         325,104
                                              & EVAL, ARMY.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, NAVY
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   41    0603527N                            RETRACT LARCH.....................          18,000          18,000
   61    0603654N                            JOINT SERVICE EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE            13,900          13,900
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   74    0603795N                            LAND ATTACK TECHNOLOGY............           1,400           1,400
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT                 33,300          33,300
                                              DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
  149    0604755N                            SHIP SELF DEFENSE (DETECT &                  1,100           1,100
                                              CONTROL).
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &                1,100           1,100
                                              DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................
         9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............         117,282         117,282
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
  236    0206313M                            MARINE CORPS COMMUNICATIONS                 16,130          16,130
                                              SYSTEMS.
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS               133,412         133,412
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST          167,812         167,812
                                              & EVAL, NAVY.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, AF
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   65    1206438F                            SPACE CONTROL TECHNOLOGY..........           1,100           1,100
   70    1206857F                            OPERATIONALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE....          12,395          12,395
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT                 13,495          13,495
                                              DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............         188,127         188,127
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
  186    0205219F                            MQ-9 UAV..........................           4,500           4,500
  187    0205671F                            JOINT COUNTER RCIED ELECTRONIC               4,000           4,000
                                              WARFARE.
  188    0207131F                            A-10 SQUADRONS....................           1,000           1,000
  217    0207610F                            BATTLEFIELD ABN COMM NODE (BACN)..          42,349          42,349
  228    0208288F                            INTEL DATA APPLICATIONS...........           1,200           1,200
  254    0305111F                            WEATHER SERVICE...................           3,000           3,000
  268    0305202F                            DRAGON U-2........................          22,100          22,100
  272    0305208F                            DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE           29,500          29,500
                                              SYSTEMS.
  310    1202247F                            AF TENCAP.........................           5,000           5,000
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS               300,776         300,776
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST          314,271         314,271
                                              & EVAL, AF.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, DW
         ..................................  ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
   24    0603122D8Z                          COMBATING TERRORISM TECHNOLOGY              25,000          25,000
                                              SUPPORT.
   26    0603134BR                           COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT                   13,648          13,648
                                              SIMULATION.
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY                38,648          38,648
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND
                                              PROTOTYPES
   94    0604134BR                           COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT                  242,668         242,668
                                              DEMONSTRATION, PROTOTYPE
                                              DEVELOPMENT, AND TESTING.
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT                242,668         242,668
                                              DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............         192,131         192,131
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
  250    1160408BB                           OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS..........           3,632           3,632
  251    1160431BB                           WARRIOR SYSTEMS...................          11,040          11,040
  253    1160434BB                           UNMANNED ISR......................          11,700          11,700
  254    1160480BB                           SOF TACTICAL VEHICLES.............             725             725
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEM                219,228         219,228
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST          500,544         500,544
                                              & EVAL, DW.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RDT&E.......................       1,307,731       1,307,731
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                     FY 2019          Senate
  Line                                     Item                                      Request        Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MANEUVER UNITS.......................................................       2,076,360       2,076,360
   020    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................         107,946         107,946
   030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................         732,485         732,485
   040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................       1,169,508       1,169,508
   050    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................       1,180,460       1,180,460
   060    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................       1,467,500       1,467,500
   070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................       4,285,211       4,285,211
   080    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................         482,201         482,201
   090    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................       1,536,851       1,536,851
   100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................       8,274,299       8,274,299
   110    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................       3,516,859       3,516,859
   120    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................         438,733         438,733
   180    US AFRICA COMMAND....................................................         231,518         231,518
   190    US EUROPEAN COMMAND..................................................         150,268         150,268
   200    US SOUTHERN COMMAND..................................................         195,964         210,264
              SOUTHCOM ABN GFE Sensor (GEOINT/SIGINT)..........................                          [4,200]
              SOUTHCOM Cyber HUMINT (CME/OPS)..................................                          [1,000]
              SOUTHCOM OSINT/PAI (CME/LIC/TOOLS)...............................                          [1,600]
              SOUTHCOM Overland Airborne ISR Flight Hours......................                          [7,200]
              SOUTHCOM SIGINT Suite COMSAT RF..................................                            [300]
   210    US FORCES KOREA......................................................          59,625          59,625
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      25,905,788      25,920,088
 
          MOBILIZATION
   220    STRATEGIC MOBILITY...................................................         370,941         370,941
   230    ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS............................................         573,560         573,560
   240    INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS..............................................           7,678           7,678
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................         952,179         952,179
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   250    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................         135,832         135,832
   260    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          54,819          54,819
   270    ONE STATION UNIT TRAINING............................................          69,599          69,599
   280    SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS...............................         518,998         518,998
   290    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................       1,020,073       1,020,073
   300    FLIGHT TRAINING......................................................       1,082,190       1,082,190
   310    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................         220,399         220,399
   320    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         611,482         611,482
   330    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         698,962         498,962
              Marketing Cuts...................................................                       [-200,000]
   340    EXAMINING............................................................         162,049         162,049
   350    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................         215,622         215,622
   360    CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING......................................         176,914         176,914
   370    JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICER TRAINING CORPS................................         174,430         174,430
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       5,141,369       4,941,369
 
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       1,259,622       1,259,622
          ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   390    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................         588,047         588,047
   400    CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES............................................         931,462         931,462
   410    LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..........................................         696,114         696,114
   420    AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT................................................         461,637         461,637
   430    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         447,564         447,564
   440    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................       2,069,127       2,069,127
   450    MANPOWER MANAGEMENT..................................................         261,021         261,021
   460    OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT..............................................         379,541         379,541
   470    OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT................................................       1,699,767       1,699,767
   480    ARMY CLAIMS ACTIVITIES...............................................         192,686         192,686
   490    REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT...............................................         240,917         240,917
   500    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT READINESS.............................         291,569         291,569
   510    INTERNATIONAL MILITARY HEADQUARTERS..................................         442,656         442,656
   520    MISC. SUPPORT OF OTHER NATIONS.......................................          48,251          48,251
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES..................................      10,009,981      10,009,981
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
     1    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0        -200,000
              Army misrepresentation of civilian pay budget request............                       [-200,000]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0        -200,000
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY..................................      42,009,317      41,623,617
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................          13,867          13,867
   020    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................         536,438         536,438
   030    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................         113,225         113,225
   040    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................         551,141         551,141
   050    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................          89,073          89,073
   060    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................         409,531         409,531
   070    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................         101,411         101,411
   080    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................          60,114          60,114
   090    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................         595,728         595,728
   100    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         304,658         304,658
   110    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................          22,175          22,175
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       2,797,361       2,797,361
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   120    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          11,832          11,832
   130    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          18,218          18,218
   140    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................          25,069          25,069
   150    MANPOWER MANAGEMENT..................................................           6,248           6,248
   160    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................          58,181          58,181
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         119,548         119,548
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES..............................       2,916,909       2,916,909
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MANEUVER UNITS.......................................................         810,269         810,269
   020    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................         193,402         193,402
   030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................         753,815         753,815
   040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................          84,124          84,124
   050    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................          31,881          31,881
   060    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................         973,874         973,874
   070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................         784,086         784,086
   080    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................          51,353          51,353
   090    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................         221,633         221,633
   100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................       1,129,942       1,129,942
   110    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         919,947         919,947
   120    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................       1,010,524       1,010,524
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       6,964,850       6,964,850
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   130    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          10,017          10,017
   140    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          72,746          72,746
   150    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................          83,105          83,105
   160    MANPOWER MANAGEMENT..................................................          10,678          10,678
   170    OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT..............................................         254,753         254,753
   180    REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT...............................................           3,146           3,146
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         434,445         434,445
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG..................................       7,399,295       7,399,295
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS..................................       5,372,399       5,372,399
   020    FLEET AIR TRAINING...................................................       2,023,351       2,023,351
   030    AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA & ENGINEERING SERVICES.......................          56,225          56,225
   040    AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY SUPPORT....................................         156,081         156,081
   050    AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT..................................................         682,379         682,379
   060    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE...........................................       1,253,756       1,253,756
   070    AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT....................................          66,649          66,649
   080    AVIATION LOGISTICS...................................................         939,368         939,368
   090    MISSION AND OTHER SHIP OPERATIONS....................................       4,439,566       4,439,566
   100    SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT & TRAINING...................................         997,663         997,663
   110    SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE...............................................       8,751,526       8,751,526
   120    SHIP DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT........................................       2,168,876       2,168,876
   130    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE.........................       1,349,593       1,351,293
              SOUTHCOM CCO Sensor Integration..................................                          [1,700]
   150    SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE.......................................         215,255         215,255
   160    WARFARE TACTICS......................................................         632,446         632,446
   170    OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY.............................         373,046         373,046
   180    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES................................................       1,452,075       1,452,075
   190    EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................         153,719         153,719
   210    COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE OPERATIONS.................................          63,039          63,039
   220    COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT MISSION SUPPORT..........................          89,339          89,339
   230    MILITARY INFORMATION SUPPORT OPERATIONS..............................           8,475           8,475
   240    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................         424,088         424,088
   260    FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE..............................................       1,361,947       1,361,947
   280    WEAPONS MAINTENANCE..................................................         823,952         823,952
   290    OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT.........................................         494,101         494,101
   300    ENTERPRISE INFORMATION...............................................         921,936         876,936
              General reduction................................................                        [-45,000]
   310    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................       2,040,389       2,446,389
              FSRM to 100% max executable......................................                        [406,000]
   320    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................       4,414,753       4,414,753
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      41,725,992      42,088,692
 
          MOBILIZATION
   330    SHIP PREPOSITIONING AND SURGE........................................         549,142         549,142
   340    READY RESERVE FORCE..................................................         310,805         310,805
   360    SHIP ACTIVATIONS/INACTIVATIONS.......................................         161,150         161,150
   370    EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS................................         120,338         120,338
   390    COAST GUARD SUPPORT..................................................          24,097          24,097
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................       1,165,532       1,165,532
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   400    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................         145,481         145,481
   410    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................           9,637           9,637
   420    RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS......................................         149,687         149,687
   430    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         879,557         879,557
   450    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................         184,436         184,436
   460    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         223,159         223,159
   470    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         181,086         181,086
   480    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................          96,006          96,006
   490    CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING......................................          72,083          72,083
   500    JUNIOR ROTC..........................................................          54,156          54,156
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       1,995,288       1,995,288
 
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................         574,994         574,994
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   510    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................       1,089,964       1,089,964
   530    CIVILIAN MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................         164,074         164,074
   540    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................         418,350         418,350
   580    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................         167,106         167,106
   600    PLANNING, ENGINEERING, AND PROGRAM SUPPORT...........................         333,556         333,556
   610    ACQUISITION, LOGISTICS, AND OVERSIGHT................................         663,690         663,690
   650    INVESTIGATIVE AND SECURITY SERVICES..................................         705,087         705,087
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................       4,116,821       4,116,821
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY..................................      49,003,633      49,366,333
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    OPERATIONAL FORCES...................................................         873,320         873,320
   020    FIELD LOGISTICS......................................................       1,094,187       1,094,187
   030    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................         314,182         314,182
   040    MARITIME PREPOSITIONING..............................................          98,136          98,136
   050    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................         183,546         183,546
   060    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION.............................         832,636         832,636
   070    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................       2,151,390       2,151,390
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       5,547,397       5,547,397
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   080    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          16,453          16,453
   090    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................           1,144           1,144
   100    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         106,360         106,360
   110    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................          46,096          46,096
   120    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         389,751         389,751
   130    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         201,662         201,662
   140    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................          32,461          32,461
   150    JUNIOR ROTC..........................................................          24,217          24,217
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................         818,144         818,144
 
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................          50,859          50,859
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   160    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          29,735          29,735
   170    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         386,375         386,375
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         466,969         466,969
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS..........................       6,832,510       6,832,510
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS..................................         569,584         569,584
   020    INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE.............................................           6,902           6,902
   030    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE...........................................         109,776         109,776
   040    AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT....................................             538             538
   050    AVIATION LOGISTICS...................................................          18,888          18,888
   060    SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT & TRAINING...................................             574             574
   070    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS................................................          17,561          17,561
   080    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES................................................         121,070         121,070
   090    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................             337             337
   100    ENTERPRISE INFORMATION...............................................          23,964          23,964
   110    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................          36,356          36,356
   120    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................         103,562         103,562
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       1,009,112       1,009,112
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   130    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................           1,868           1,868
   140    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................          12,849          12,849
   160    ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT...................................           3,177           3,177
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................          17,894          17,894
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES..............................       1,027,006       1,027,006
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    OPERATING FORCES.....................................................          99,173          99,173
   020    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................          19,430          19,430
   030    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................          39,962          39,962
   040    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................         101,829         101,829
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................         260,394         260,394
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   050    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          11,176          11,176
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................          11,176          11,176
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE............................         271,570         271,570
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       1,164,810       1,164,810
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES................................................         758,178         783,178
              Increase for F-35 sustainment to accelerate depot component                               [25,000]
              repair capability................................................
   020    COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES............................................       1,509,027       1,509,027
   030    AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT, MAINTAIN SKILLS).......................       1,323,330       1,323,330
   040    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................       3,511,830       3,511,830
   050    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................       2,892,705       2,917,705
              Additional demo..................................................                         [25,000]
   060    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................       7,613,084       8,258,984
              Increase for JSTARS buy-back.....................................                         [95,900]
              WSS to 100% executable...........................................                        [550,000]
   070    FLYING HOUR PROGRAM..................................................       4,345,208       4,395,208
              Increase for JSTARS buy-back.....................................                         [50,000]
   080    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................       5,989,215       5,989,215
   090    GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING.........................................         928,023         928,023
   100    OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS........................................       1,080,956       1,080,956
   110    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................         879,032         879,032
   130    LAUNCH FACILITIES....................................................         183,777         183,777
   140    SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS................................................         404,072         404,072
   170    US NORTHCOM/NORAD....................................................         187,375         187,375
   180    US STRATCOM..........................................................         529,902         529,902
   190    US CYBERCOM..........................................................         329,474         329,474
   200    US CENTCOM...........................................................         166,024         166,024
   210    US SOCOM.............................................................             723             723
   220    US TRANSCOM..........................................................             535             535
   918    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         156,800
              Procurement of 7 DABs for PACOM..................................                        [156,800]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      33,797,280      34,699,980
 
          MOBILIZATION
   230    AIRLIFT OPERATIONS...................................................       1,307,695       1,307,695
   240    MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS............................................         144,417         144,417
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................       1,452,112       1,452,112
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   280    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................         133,187         133,187
   290    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          25,041          25,041
   300    RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS (ROTC)...............................         117,338         117,338
   330    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         401,996         401,996
   340    FLIGHT TRAINING......................................................         477,064         477,064
   350    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................         276,423         276,423
   360    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................          95,948          95,948
   380    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         154,530         154,530
   390    EXAMINING............................................................           4,132           4,132
   400    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................         223,150         223,150
   410    CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING......................................         209,497         209,497
   420    JUNIOR ROTC..........................................................          59,908          59,908
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       2,178,214       2,178,214
 
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       1,222,456       1,222,456
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   430    LOGISTICS OPERATIONS.................................................         681,788         681,788
   440    TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES.........................................         117,812         117,812
   480    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         953,102         953,102
   490    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................         358,389         358,389
   500    OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES.........................................       1,194,862       1,194,862
   510    CIVIL AIR PATROL.....................................................          29,594          29,594
   540    INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT................................................          74,959          74,959
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................       4,632,962       4,632,962
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE.............................      42,060,568      42,963,268
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES................................................       1,853,437       1,853,437
   020    MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS...........................................         205,369         205,369
   030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................         345,576         345,576
   040    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         120,736         123,536
              Additional demo..................................................                          [2,800]
   050    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................         241,239         293,239
              WSS to 91%.......................................................                         [52,000]
   060    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................         385,922         385,922
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       3,152,279       3,207,079
 
          ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
   070    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          71,188          71,188
   080    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................          19,429          19,429
   090    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERS MGMT (ARPC)...............................           9,386           9,386
   100    OTHER PERS SUPPORT (DISABILITY COMP).................................           7,512           7,512
   110    AUDIOVISUAL..........................................................             440             440
          SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES...................         107,955         107,955
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE............................       3,260,234       3,315,034
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS..................................................       2,619,940       2,621,540
              Restoring O&M associated with buyback of 3 PMAI JSTARS aircraft..                          [1,600]
   020    MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS...........................................         623,265         623,265
   030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................         748,287         748,287
   040    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         303,792         303,792
   050    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................       1,061,759       1,061,759
   060    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................         988,333         999,333
              PFAS Transfer....................................................                         [11,000]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       6,345,376       6,357,976
 
          ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
   070    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          45,711          45,711
   080    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................          36,535          36,535
          SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES..................          82,246          82,246
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG...................................       6,427,622       6,440,222
 
          OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF................................................         430,215         432,715
              Operational logistics exercise elements..........................                          [2,500]
   020    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF--CE2T2.........................................         602,186         602,186
   040    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/OPERATING FORCES..........................       5,389,250       5,389,250
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       6,421,651       6,424,151
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   050    DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY.......................................         181,601         181,601
   060    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF................................................          96,565          96,565
   070    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/TRAINING AND RECRUITING...................         370,583         370,583
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................         648,749         648,749
 
          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................      15,645,192      15,645,192
          ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   080    CIVIL MILITARY PROGRAMS..............................................         166,131         166,131
   100    DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY........................................         625,633         625,633
   110    DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY...................................       1,465,354       1,465,354
   120    DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES ACTIVITY.....................................         859,923         859,923
   130    DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY...................................       2,106,930       2,106,930
   150    DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY........................................          27,403          27,403
   160    DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY.............................................         379,275         379,275
   170    DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY...............................................         207,537         207,537
   180    DEFENSE PERSONNEL ACCOUNTING AGENCY..................................         130,696         130,696
   190    DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION AGENCY..................................         754,711         754,711
   200    DEFENSE SECURITY SERVICE.............................................         789,175         852,775
              Additional civilian FTE..........................................                         [18,600]
              New mission needs................................................                         [45,000]
   220    DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY SECURITY ADMINISTRATION...........................          34,951          34,951
   230    DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY......................................         553,329         553,329
   250    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY.............................       2,892,284       2,942,284
              Impact aid for children with severe disabilities.................                         [10,000]
              Impact aid for schools with military dependent students..........                         [40,000]
   260    MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY...............................................         499,817         499,817
   280    OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT........................................          70,035          70,035
   290    OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE...................................       1,519,655       1,565,655
              CDC Health Study (sec. 312)......................................                         [10,000]
              Clearinghouse....................................................                          [1,000]
              Defense Environmental International Cooperations (DEIC)..........                          [1,000]
              Defense Fellows Program..........................................                         [10,000]
              DOD emerging contaminants........................................                          [1,000]
              DOD environmental resilience.....................................                          [1,000]
              DOD Rewards Program Cut..........................................                         [-3,000]
              Readiness and Environmental Protection Initiative Increase.......                         [25,000]
   300    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/ADMIN & SVC-WIDE ACTIVITIES...............          97,787          97,787
   310    WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS SERVICES.....................................         456,407         456,407
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES..................................      29,282,225      29,441,825
 
          TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE........................      36,352,625      36,514,725
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          US COURT OF APPEALS FOR ARMED FORCES, DEF
   010    US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE....................          14,662          14,662
          SUBTOTAL US COURT OF APPEALS FOR ARMED FORCES, DEF...................          14,662          14,662
 
          OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER, AND CIVIC AID
   010    OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID........................         107,663         107,663
          SUBTOTAL OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER, AND CIVIC AID..............         107,663         107,663
 
          COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION ACCOUNT
   010    FORMER SOVIET UNION (FSU) THREAT REDUCTION...........................         335,240         335,240
          SUBTOTAL COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION ACCOUNT........................         335,240         335,240
 
          DOD ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT FUND
   010    ACQ WORKFORCE DEV FD.................................................         400,000         400,000
          SUBTOTAL DOD ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT FUND..................         400,000         400,000
 
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY
   060    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY......................................         203,449         203,449
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY.............................         203,449         203,449
 
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY
   080    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY......................................         329,253         329,253
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY.............................         329,253         329,253
 
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE
   100    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE.................................         296,808         285,808
              PFAS Transfer....................................................                        [-11,000]
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE........................         296,808         285,808
 
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE
   120    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE...................................           8,926           8,926
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE..........................           8,926           8,926
 
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES
   140    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES........................         212,346         212,346
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES...............         212,346         212,346
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................       1,908,347       1,897,347
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0        -216,520
              Foreign Currency Fluctuation.....................................                       [-267,000]
              JROTC............................................................                          [5,480]
              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force DSMOA.......................                         [10,000]
              Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard DSMOA..............                         [15,000]
              Operation and Maintenance, Army DSMOA............................                         [10,000]
              Operation and Maintenance, Navy DSMOA............................                         [10,000]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0        -216,520
 
          TOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED..................................................               0        -216,520
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE........................................     199,469,636     200,351,316
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY 
              OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
                        (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2019          Senate
  Line                Item                   Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
         OPERATING FORCES
  010    MANEUVER UNITS................       1,179,339       1,179,339
  030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........          25,983          25,983
  040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........       2,189,916       2,189,916
  050    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT         188,609         188,609
  060    AVIATION ASSETS...............         120,787         120,787
  070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS           3,867,286       3,867,286
          SUPPORT......................
  080    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.         550,068         550,068
  090    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.         195,873         195,873
  100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......         109,560         109,560
  110    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                 60,807          60,807
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
  140    ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES.........       5,992,222       5,992,222
  150    COMMANDERS EMERGENCY RESPONSE           10,000          10,000
          PROGRAM......................
  160    RESET.........................       1,036,454       1,036,454
  180    US AFRICA COMMAND.............         248,796         248,796
  190    US EUROPEAN COMMAND...........          98,127          98,127
  200    US SOUTHERN COMMAND...........           2,550           2,550
         SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.....      15,876,377      15,876,377
 
         MOBILIZATION
  230    ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS.....         158,753         158,753
         SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.........         158,753         158,753
 
         CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,074,270       1,074,270
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
  390    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....         712,230         712,230
  400    CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES.....          44,168          44,168
  410    LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES...           5,300           5,300
  420    AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT.........          38,597          38,597
  460    OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         109,019         109,019
  490    REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT........         191,786         191,786
         SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE             2,175,370       2,175,370
          ACTIVITIES...................
 
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,      18,210,500      18,210,500
          ARMY.........................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
  020    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........          20,700          20,700
  060    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS                 700             700
          SUPPORT......................
  090    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......          20,487          20,487
         SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.....          41,887          41,887
 
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,          41,887          41,887
          ARMY RES.....................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
         OPERATING FORCES
  010    MANEUVER UNITS................          42,519          42,519
  020    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......             778             778
  030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........          12,093          12,093
  040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........             708             708
  060    AVIATION ASSETS...............          28,135          28,135
  070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS               5,908           5,908
          SUPPORT......................
  100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......          18,877          18,877
  120    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL                 956             956
          HEADQUARTERS.................
         SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.....         109,974         109,974
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
  150    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....             755             755
         SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD                     755             755
          ACTIVITIES...................
 
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,         110,729         110,729
          ARNG.........................
 
         AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES
          FUND
         AFGHAN NATIONAL ARMY
  090    SUSTAINMENT...................       1,522,777       1,522,777
  100    INFRASTRUCTURE................         137,732         137,732
  110    EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION..          71,922          71,922
  120    TRAINING AND OPERATIONS.......         175,846         175,846
         SUBTOTAL AFGHAN NATIONAL ARMY.       1,908,277       1,908,277
 
         AFGHAN NATIONAL POLICE
  130    SUSTAINMENT...................         527,554         527,554
  140    INFRASTRUCTURE................          42,984          42,984
  150    EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION..          14,554          14,554
  160    TRAINING AND OPERATIONS.......         181,922         181,922
         SUBTOTAL AFGHAN NATIONAL               767,014         767,014
          POLICE.......................
 
         AFGHAN AIR FORCE
  170    SUSTAINMENT...................         942,279         942,279
  180    INFRASTRUCTURE................          30,350          30,350
  190    EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION..         572,310         572,310
  200    TRAINING AND OPERATIONS.......         277,191         277,191
         SUBTOTAL AFGHAN AIR FORCE.....       1,822,130       1,822,130
 
         AFGHAN SPECIAL SECURITY FORCES
  210    SUSTAINMENT...................         353,734         353,734
  220    INFRASTRUCTURE................          43,132          43,132
  230    EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION..         151,790         151,790
  240    TRAINING AND OPERATIONS.......         153,373         153,373
         SUBTOTAL AFGHAN SPECIAL                702,029         702,029
          SECURITY FORCES..............
 
         TOTAL AFGHANISTAN SECURITY           5,199,450       5,199,450
          FORCES FUND..................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
         OPERATING FORCES
  010    MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT               435,507         435,507
          OPERATIONS...................
  030    AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA &                  800             800
          ENGINEERING SERVICES.........
  040    AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY                9,394           9,394
          SUPPORT......................
  050    AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT...........         193,384         193,384
  060    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE....         173,053         173,053
  070    AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS                3,524           3,524
          SUPPORT......................
  080    AVIATION LOGISTICS............          60,219          60,219
  090    MISSION AND OTHER SHIP                 942,960         942,960
          OPERATIONS...................
  100    SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &               20,236          20,236
          TRAINING.....................
  110    SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE........       1,022,647       1,022,647
  130    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS AND               59,553          59,553
          ELECTRONIC WARFARE...........
  160    WARFARE TACTICS...............          16,651          16,651
  170    OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND             31,118          31,118
          OCEANOGRAPHY.................
  180    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES.........         635,560         635,560
  190    EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND                4,334           4,334
          DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT.....
  220    COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT             24,800          24,800
          MISSION SUPPORT..............
  240    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........             355             355
  280    WEAPONS MAINTENANCE...........         493,033         493,033
  290    OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT..          12,780          12,780
  310    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND            67,321          67,321
          MODERNIZATION................
  320    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........         211,394         211,394
         SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.....       4,418,623       4,418,623
 
         MOBILIZATION
  370    EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES           12,902          12,902
          SYSTEMS......................
  390    COAST GUARD SUPPORT...........         165,000         165,000
         SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.........         177,902         177,902
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
  430    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....          51,138          51,138
         SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                   51,138          51,138
          RECRUITING...................
 
         CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........          16,076          16,076
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
  510    ADMINISTRATION................           4,145           4,145
  540    MILITARY MANPOWER AND                    7,503           7,503
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
  580    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....          69,297          69,297
  610    ACQUISITION, LOGISTICS, AND             10,912          10,912
          OVERSIGHT....................
  650    INVESTIGATIVE AND SECURITY               1,559           1,559
          SERVICES.....................
         SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD                 109,492         109,492
          ACTIVITIES...................
 
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,       4,757,155       4,757,155
          NAVY.........................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          MARINE CORPS
         OPERATING FORCES
  010    OPERATIONAL FORCES............         734,505         734,505
  020    FIELD LOGISTICS...............         212,691         212,691
  030    DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............          53,040          53,040
  070    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........          23,047          23,047
         SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.....       1,023,283       1,023,283
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
  120    TRAINING SUPPORT..............          30,459          30,459
         SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                   30,459          30,459
          RECRUITING...................
 
         CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........           4,650           4,650
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
  160    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....          61,400          61,400
  170    ADMINISTRATION................           2,108           2,108
         SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD                  68,158          68,158
          ACTIVITIES...................
 
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,       1,121,900       1,121,900
          MARINE CORPS.................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
  020    INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE......             500             500
  030    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE....          11,400          11,400
  080    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES.........          13,737          13,737
         SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.....          25,637          25,637
 
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,          25,637          25,637
          NAVY RES.....................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
  010    OPERATING FORCES..............           2,550           2,550
  040    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........             795             795
         SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.....           3,345           3,345
 
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,           3,345           3,345
          MC RESERVE...................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
          FORCE
         OPERATING FORCES
  010    PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES.........         166,274         166,274
  020    COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES.....       1,492,580       1,492,580
  030    AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT,          110,237         110,237
          MAINTAIN SKILLS).............
  040    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT               209,996         209,996
          MAINTENANCE..................
  050    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                 92,412          92,412
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
  060    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT         1,289,693       1,289,693
          AND SYSTEM SUPPORT...........
  070    FLYING HOUR PROGRAM...........       2,355,264       2,355,264
  080    BASE SUPPORT..................       1,141,718       1,141,718
  090    GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING..          13,537          13,537
  100    OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS.         224,713         224,713
  110    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.........          17,353          17,353
  120    TACTICAL INTEL AND OTHER                36,098          36,098
          SPECIAL ACTIVITIES...........
  130    LAUNCH FACILITIES.............             385             385
  140    SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS.........          38,966          38,966
  170    US NORTHCOM/NORAD.............             725             725
  180    US STRATCOM...................           2,056           2,056
  190    US CYBERCOM...................          35,189          35,189
  200    US CENTCOM....................         162,691         162,691
  210    US SOCOM......................          19,000          19,000
         SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.....       7,408,887       7,408,887
 
         MOBILIZATION
  230    AIRLIFT OPERATIONS............       1,287,659       1,287,659
  240    MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS.....         107,064         107,064
         SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.........       1,394,723       1,394,723
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
  280    OFFICER ACQUISITION...........             300             300
  290    RECRUIT TRAINING..............             340             340
  330    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....          25,327          25,327
  340    FLIGHT TRAINING...............             844             844
  350    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT                 1,199           1,199
          EDUCATION....................
  360    TRAINING SUPPORT..............           1,320           1,320
         SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                   29,330          29,330
          RECRUITING...................
 
         CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........          51,108          51,108
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
  430    LOGISTICS OPERATIONS..........         154,485         154,485
  440    TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..          13,608          13,608
  480    ADMINISTRATION................           4,814           4,814
  490    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....         131,123         131,123
  500    OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES..          97,471          97,471
  540    INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT.........             240             240
         SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD                 452,849         452,849
          ACTIVITIES...................
 
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,       9,285,789       9,285,789
          AIR FORCE....................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
  030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT                51,000          51,000
          MAINTENANCE..................
  060    BASE SUPPORT..................           9,500           9,500
         SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.....          60,500          60,500
 
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,          60,500          60,500
          AF RESERVE...................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
         OPERATING FORCES
  020    MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS....           3,560           3,560
  060    BASE SUPPORT..................          12,310          12,310
         SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.....          15,870          15,870
 
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,          15,870          15,870
          ANG..........................
 
         OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,
          DEFENSE-WIDE
         OPERATING FORCES
  010    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF.........          28,671          28,671
  040    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/          3,733,161       3,733,161
          OPERATING FORCES.............
         SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.....       3,761,832       3,761,832
 
         CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,944,813       1,944,813
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
  100    DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY.           1,781           1,781
  110    DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT             21,723          21,723
          AGENCY.......................
  130    DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS            111,702         111,702
          AGENCY.......................
  150    DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY.         127,023         127,023
  170    DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY........          14,377          14,377
  190    DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION         2,208,442       1,658,442
          AGENCY.......................
             Coalition Support Funds...                       [-550,000]
  230    DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION               302,250         302,250
          AGENCY.......................
  250    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                   31,620          31,620
          EDUCATION ACTIVITY...........
  290    OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF              16,579          16,579
          DEFENSE......................
  310    WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS                  7,766           7,766
          SERVICES.....................
         SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE             4,788,076       4,238,076
          ACTIVITIES...................
 
         TOTAL OPERATION AND                  8,549,908       7,999,908
          MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE....
 
         TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE.      47,382,670      46,832,670
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2019           Senate
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY PERSONNEL
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS.....     140,689,301      137,627,221
     End strength cut.................                        [-993,200]
     Foreign Currency Fluctuation.....                        [-133,000]
     JROTC............................                            1,220
     Military Personnel Underexecution                      [-1,937,100]
SUBTOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL                140,689,301      137,627,221
 APPROPRIATIONS.......................
 
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH FUND
 CONTRIBUTIONS
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH FUND        7,533,090        7,533,090
 CONTRIBUTIONS........................
SUBTOTAL MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE           7,533,090        7,533,090
 HEALTH FUND CONTRIBUTIONS............
 
TOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL..............     148,222,391      145,160,311
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2019           Senate
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY PERSONNEL
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS.....       4,660,661        4,660,661
SUBTOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL                  4,660,661        4,660,661
 APPROPRIATIONS.......................
 
TOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL..............       4,660,661        4,660,661
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
       SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS  (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2019         Senate
  Line                 Item                   Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
   010   Industrial Operations..........          59,002          59,002
   020   Supply Management--Army........          99,763          99,763
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           59,002          59,002
          ARMY..........................
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           99,763          99,763
          ARMY..........................
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
   020   Supplies and Materials.........          69,054          69,054
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           69,054          69,054
          AIR FORCE.....................
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-
          WIDE
   020   Supply Chain Management--Def...          48,096          48,096
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           48,096          48,096
          DEFENSE-WIDE..................
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA
   010   Working Capital Fund, DECA.....       1,266,200       1,266,200
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,        1,266,200       1,266,200
          DECA..........................
 
         TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND.....       1,542,115       1,542,115
 
         CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS
          DESTRUCTION
         OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
     1   Chem Demilitarization--O&M.....         105,997         105,997
         SUBTOTAL OPERATION AND                  105,997         105,997
          MAINTENANCE...................
 
         RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST,
          AND EVALUATION
     2   Chem Demilitarization--RDT&E...         886,728         886,728
         SUBTOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,         886,728         886,728
          TEST, AND EVALUATION..........
 
         PROCUREMENT
     3   Chem Demilitarization--Proc....           1,091           1,091
         SUBTOTAL PROCUREMENT...........           1,091           1,091
 
         TOTAL CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS           993,816         993,816
          DESTRUCTION...................
 
         DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
          ACTIVITIES, DEF
         DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER
          DRUG ACTIVITIES
   010   Drug Interdiction and Counter-          547,171         547,171
          Drug Activities, Defense......
         SUBTOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION AND          547,171         547,171
          COUNTER DRUG ACTIVITIES.......
 
         DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM
   020   Drug Demand Reduction Program..         117,900         117,900
         SUBTOTAL DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION          117,900         117,900
          PROGRAM.......................
 
         READINESS COUNTERDRUG
          ACTIVITIES
   040   Drug Interdiction and Counter-            5,276           5,276
          Drug Activities, Defense......
         SUBTOTAL READINESS COUNTERDRUG            5,276           5,276
          ACTIVITIES....................
 
         NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG
          PROGRAM
   030   National Guard Counter-Drug             117,178         117,178
          Program.......................
         SUBTOTAL NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-        117,178         117,178
          DRUG PROGRAM..................
 
         TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-          787,525         787,525
          DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEF..........
 
         OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
         OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
   010   Office of the Inspector General         327,611         327,611
         SUBTOTAL OPERATION AND                  327,611         327,611
          MAINTENANCE...................
 
         RDT&E
   020   Office of the Inspector General           1,602           1,602
         SUBTOTAL RDT&E.................           1,602           1,602
 
         PROCUREMENT
   030   Office of the Inspector General              60              60
         SUBTOTAL PROCUREMENT...........              60              60
 
         TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR           329,273         329,273
          GENERAL.......................
 
         DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
   010   In-House Care..................       9,738,569       9,738,569
   020   Private Sector Care............      15,103,735      15,103,735
   030   Consolidated Health Support....       2,107,961       2,107,961
   040   Information Management.........       2,039,878       2,039,878
   050   Management Activities..........         307,629         307,629
   060   Education and Training.........         756,778         759,278
             Specialized medical pilot                           [2,500]
             program....................
   070   Base Operations/Communications.       2,090,845       2,090,845
         SUBTOTAL OPERATION &                 32,145,395      32,147,895
          MAINTENANCE...................
 
         RDT&E
   080   R&D Research...................          11,386          11,386
   090   R&D Exploratry Development.....          75,010          75,010
   100   R&D Advanced Development.......         275,258         275,258
   110   R&D Demonstration/Validation...         117,529         117,529
   120   R&D Engineering Development....         151,985         151,985
   130   R&D Management and Support.....          63,755          63,755
   140   R&D Capabilities Enhancement...          15,714          15,714
         SUBTOTAL RDT&E.................         710,637         710,637
 
         PROCUREMENT
   150   PROC Initial Outfitting........          33,056          33,056
   160   PROC Replacement &                      343,424         343,424
          Modernization.................
   180   PROC DoD Healthcare Management          496,680         496,680
          System Modernization..........
         SUBTOTAL PROCUREMENT...........         873,160         873,160
 
         TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM...      33,729,192      33,731,692
 
         TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.....      37,381,921      37,384,421
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2019         Senate
  Line                 Item                   Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
   020   Supply Management--Army........           6,600           6,600
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,            6,600           6,600
          ARMY..........................
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
   020   Supplies and Materials.........           8,590           8,590
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,            8,590           8,590
          AIR FORCE.....................
 
         TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND.....          15,190          15,190
 
         DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
          ACTIVITIES, DEF
         DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER
          DRUG ACTIVITIES
   010   Drug Interdiction and Counter-          153,100         153,100
          Drug Activities, Defense......
         SUBTOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION AND          153,100         153,100
          COUNTER DRUG ACTIVITIES.......
 
         TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-          153,100         153,100
          DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEF..........
 
         OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
         OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
   010   Office of the Inspector General          24,692          24,692
         SUBTOTAL OPERATION AND                   24,692          24,692
          MAINTENANCE...................
 
         TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR            24,692          24,692
          GENERAL.......................
 
         DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
   010   In-House Care..................          72,627          72,627
   020   Private Sector Care............         277,066         277,066
   030   Consolidated Health Support....           2,375           2,375
         SUBTOTAL OPERATION &                    352,068         352,068
          MAINTENANCE...................
 
         TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM...         352,068         352,068
 
         COUNTER-ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP
          FUND
         COUNTER-ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP
          FUND (CTEF)
   010   IRAQ...........................         850,000         850,000
   020   SYRIA..........................         300,000         300,000
   030   Other..........................         250,000         250,000
         SUBTOTAL COUNTER-ISIS TRAIN AND       1,400,000       1,400,000
          EQUIP FUND (CTEF).............
 
         TOTAL COUNTER-ISIS TRAIN AND          1,400,000       1,400,000
          EQUIP FUND....................
 
         TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.....       1,945,050       1,945,050
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 State/Country and                                    FY 2019         Senate
          Account                  Installation              Project Title            Request       Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
ARMY
                             Alabama
ARMY                           Anniston Army Depot     Weapon Maintenance Shop..           5,200           5,200
                             California
ARMY                           Fort Irwin              Multipurpose Range                 29,000          29,000
                                                        Complex.
                             Colorado
ARMY                           Fort Carson             Vehicle Maintenance Shop.          77,000          77,000
                             Georgia
ARMY                           Fort Gordon             Cyber Instructional Fac            99,000          99,000
                                                        and Network Ctr.
                             Germany
ARMY                           East Camp Grafenwoehr   Mission Training Complex.          31,000          31,000
                             Hawaii
ARMY                           Fort Shafter            Command and Control               105,000         105,000
                                                        Facility, Incr 4.
ARMY                           Wheeler Army Airfield   Rotary wing parking apron               0          50,000
                             Honduras
ARMY                           Soto Cano AB            Barracks.................          21,000          21,000
                             Indiana
ARMY                           Crane Army Ammunition   Railcar Holding Area.....          16,000          16,000
                                Activity
                             Kentucky
ARMY                           Fort Campbell           Microgrid and power plant               0          18,000
ARMY                           Fort Campbell           Vehicle Maintenance Shop.          32,000          32,000
ARMY                           Fort Knox               Digital Air/Ground                 26,000          26,000
                                                        Integration Range.
                             Korea
ARMY                           Camp Tango              Command and Control                17,500          17,500
                                                        Facility.
                             Kuwait
ARMY                           Camp Arifjan            Vehicle Maintenance Shop.          44,000          44,000
                             New Jersey
ARMY                           Picatinny Arsenal       Munitions Disassembly              41,000          41,000
                                                        Complex.
                             New Mexico
ARMY                           White Sands Missile     Information Systems                40,000          40,000
                                Range                   Facility.
                             New York
ARMY                           West Point Military     Engineering Center.......          95,000          95,000
                                Reservation
ARMY                           West Point Military     Parking Structure........          65,000          65,000
                                Reservation
                             North Carolina
ARMY                           Fort Bragg              Dining Facility..........          10,000          10,000
                             South Carolina
ARMY                           Fort Jackson            Trainee Barracks Complex           52,000          52,000
                                                        3, PH2.
                             Texas
ARMY                           Fort Bliss              Supply Support Activity..          24,000          24,000
ARMY                           Fort Hood               Supply Support Activity..               0           9,600
                             Virginia
ARMY                           Arlington National      Arlington National                      0          30,000
                                Cemetery                Cemetery Southern
                                                        Expansion.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
ARMY                           Unspecified Worldwide   Host Nation Support......          34,000          34,000
                                Locations
ARMY                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          71,068          71,068
                                Locations
ARMY                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  72,000          72,000
                                Locations               Construction.
ARMY                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......           5,000           5,000
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY                                                                    1,011,768       1,119,368
                               ......................
NAVY
                             Arizona
NAVY                           Camp Navajo             Missile Motor Magazines                 0          14,800
                                                        and U&SI.
                             Bahamas
NAVY                           Andros Island           AUTEC Austere Quarters...          31,050          31,050
                             Bahrain Island
NAVY                           SW Asia                 Fleet Maintenance                  26,340          26,340
                                                        Facility & TOC.
                             California
NAVY                           Camp Pendleton          62 Area Mess Hall &                     0          71,700
                                                        Consolidated Warehouse.
NAVY                           Camp Pendleton          Supply Warehouse SOI-West               0          16,600
NAVY                           Camp Pendleton          Potable Water                      47,230          47,230
                                                        Distribution
                                                        Improvements.
NAVY                           Camp Pendleton          AAV-ACV Maintenance &              49,410          49,410
                                                        Warehouse Facility.
NAVY                           Camp Pendleton          Full Motion Trainer                10,670          10,670
                                                        Facility.
NAVY                           Camp Pendleton          Electrical Upgrades......           4,020           4,020
NAVY                           Coronado                CMV-22B Airfield                   77,780          77,780
                                                        Improvements.
NAVY                           Lemoore                 F-35 Maintenance Hangar..         112,690         112,690
NAVY                           Miramar                 F-35 Vertical Landing              20,480          20,480
                                                        Pads and Taxiway.
NAVY                           Miramar                 Airfield Security                  11,500          11,500
                                                        Improvements.
NAVY                           Point Mugu              Directed Energy Systems            22,150          22,150
                                                        Intergration Lab.
NAVY                           San Diego               Harbor Drive Switching             48,440          48,440
                                                        Station.
NAVY                           San Diego               Pier 8 Replacement.......         108,100         108,100
NAVY                           San Nicolas Island      Missile Assembly Build &           31,010          31,010
                                                        High Explosive Mag.
NAVY                           Seal Beach              Missile Magazines........               0          21,800
NAVY                           Seal Beach              Causeway, Boat Channel &          117,830         117,830
                                                        Turning Basin.
                             District of Columbia
NAVY                           Naval Observatory       Master Time Clocks &              115,600         115,600
                                                        Operations Facility.
                             Florida
NAVY                           Mayport                 LCS Support Facility.....          82,350          82,350
NAVY                           Mayport                 LCS Operational Training           29,110          29,110
                                                        Facility Addition.
NAVY                           NAS Whiting Field       Air Traffic Control Tower               0          10,000
                                                        (North Field).
                             Georgia
NAVY                           MCLB Albany             Welding and Body Repair                 0          31,900
                                                        Shop Facility.
                             Germany
NAVY                           Panzer Kaserne          Marforeur HQ                       43,950          43,950
                                                        Modernization and
                                                        Expansion.
                             Guam
NAVY                           Joint Region Marianas   Ace Gym & Dining.........          27,910          27,910
NAVY                           Joint Region Marianas   Earth Covered Magazines..          52,270          52,270
NAVY                           Joint Region Marianas   Ordnance Ops.............          22,020          22,020
NAVY                           Joint Region Marianas   Machine Gun Range........         141,287          15,000
NAVY                           Joint Region Marianas   Unaccompanied Enlisted             36,170          36,170
                                                        Housing.
                             Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
NAVY                           Guantanamo Bay          Solid Waste Management             85,000          85,000
                                                        Facility.
                             Hawaii
NAVY                           Joint Base Pearl        Drydock Waterfront                 45,000          45,000
                                Harbor-Hickam           Facility.
NAVY                           Kaneohe Bay             Corrosion Control Hangar.          66,100          66,100
NAVY                           Pearl City              Water Transmission Line..          78,320          78,320
                             Japan
NAVY                           Kadena AB               Tactical Operations                 9,049           9,049
                                                        Center.
                             Maine
NAVY                           Kittery                 Extend Portal Crane Rail.          39,725          39,725
NAVY                           Kittery                 Dry Dock #1 Superflood            109,960         109,960
                                                        Basin.
                             Mississippi
NAVY                           Naval Construction      Expeditionary Combat                    0          22,300
                                Battalion Center        Skills Student Berthing.
                             North Carolina
NAVY                           Camp Lejeune            2nd Radio BN Complex,                   0          51,300
                                                        Phase 2.
NAVY                           Cherry Point Marine     Aircraft Maintenance              133,970          27,000
                                Corps Air Station       Hangar.
NAVY                           Cherry Point Marine     Flightline Utility                106,860         106,860
                                Corps Air Station       Modernization.
                             Pennsylvania
NAVY                           Philadelphia            Submarine Propulsor                71,050          71,050
                                                        Manufacturing Support
                                                        Fac.
                             South Carolina
NAVY                           MCAS Beaufort           Cryogenics Facility......               0           6,300
NAVY                           MCAS Beaufort           Recycling/Hazardous Waste           9,517           9,517
                                                        Facility.
NAVY                           Parris Island           Range Improvements &               35,190          35,190
                                                        Modernization, Phase 2.
                             Utah
NAVY                           Hill AFB                D5 Missile Motor Receipt/         105,520         105,520
                                                        Storage Facility.
                             Virginia
NAVY                           Portsmouth              Ships Maintenance                  26,120          26,120
                                                        Facility.
NAVY                           Quantico                Ammunition Supply Point                 0          13,100
                                                        Upgrade, Phase 2.
NAVY                           Quantico                TBS Fire Station.........          21,980               0
                             Washington
NAVY                           Bangor                  Pier and Maintenance               88,960          88,960
                                                        Facility.
NAVY                           Whidbey Island          Fleet Support Facility...          19,450          19,450
NAVY                           Whidbey Island          Next Generation Jammer              7,930           7,930
                                                        Facility.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
NAVY                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                       0          25,000
                                Locations               Construction.
NAVY                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  28,579          28,579
                                Locations               Construction.
NAVY                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......         185,542         185,542
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL NAVY                                                                    2,543,189       2,572,752
                               ......................
AIR FORCE
                             Alaska
AIR FORCE                      Eielson AFB             F-35A School AGE Facility          22,500          22,500
AIR FORCE                      Eielson AFB             F-35A CATM Range.........          19,000          19,000
AIR FORCE                      Eielson AFB             F-35 Aircraft Maintenance           6,800           6,800
                                                        Unit Admin Facility.
AIR FORCE                      Eielson AFB             F-35 Conventional                  15,500          15,500
                                                        Munitions Maintenance
                                                        Fac.
                             Arizona
AIR FORCE                      Davis-Monthan AFB       AGE Facility.............               0          15,000
AIR FORCE                      Luke AFB                F-35A Squad Ops #6.......          17,000          17,000
AIR FORCE                      Luke AFB                F-35A ADAL AMU B914 Sq 6.          23,000          23,000
                             Florida
AIR FORCE                      Eglin AFB               F-35A Student Dormitory            28,000          28,000
                                                        II.
AIR FORCE                      Eglin AFB               F-35A Integrated Trng              34,863          34,863
                                                        Center Academics Bldg.
AIR FORCE                      MacDill AFB             KC135 Beddown Add Flight            3,100           3,100
                                                        Simulator Training.
                             Guam
AIR FORCE                      Joint Region Marianas   Hayman Munitions Storage            9,800           9,800
                                                        Igloos MSA 2.
                             Mariana Islands
AIR FORCE                      Tinian                  APR--Cargo Pad With                46,000          46,000
                                                        Taxiway Extension.
AIR FORCE                      Tinian                  APR--Maintenance Support            4,700           4,700
                                                        Facility.
                             Maryland
AIR FORCE                      Joint Base Andrews      Child Development Center.               0          13,000
AIR FORCE                      Joint Base Andrews      PAR Relocate Haz Cargo             37,000          37,000
                                                        Pad and EOD Range.
AIR FORCE                      Joint Base Andrews      Presidential Aircraft             154,000         121,250
                                                        Recap Complex, Inc. 2.
                             Massachusetts
AIR FORCE                      Hanscom AFB             MIT-Lincoln Laboratory            225,000         175,000
                                                        (West Lab CSL/MIF).
                             Nebraska
AIR FORCE                      Offutt AFB              Parking Lot, USSTRATCOM..           9,500           9,500
                             Nevada
AIR FORCE                      Creech AFB              MQ-9 CPIP Operations &             28,000          28,000
                                                        Command Center Fac..
AIR FORCE                      Creech AFB              MQ-9 CPIP GCS Operations           31,000          31,000
                                                        Facility.
AIR FORCE                      Nellis AFB              CRH Simulator............           5,900           5,900
                             New Mexico
AIR FORCE                      Holloman AFB            MQ-9 FTU Ops Facility....          85,000          85,000
AIR FORCE                      Kirtland AFB            Wyoming Gate Upgrade for                0           7,000
                                                        Anti-Terrorism
                                                        Compliance.
                             New York
AIR FORCE                      Rome Lab                Anti-Terrorism Perimeter                0          14,200
                                                        Security / Entry Control
                                                        Point.
                             North Dakota
AIR FORCE                      Minot AFB               Consolidated Helo/TRF Ops/         66,000          66,000
                                                        AMU and Alert Fac.
                             Ohio
AIR FORCE                      Wright-Patterson AFB    ADAL Intelligence                 116,100         116,100
                                                        Production Complex
                                                        (NASIC).
                             Oklahoma
AIR FORCE                      Altus AFB               KC-46A FTU/FTC Simulator           12,000          12,000
                                                        Facility PH 3.
AIR FORCE                      Tinker AFB              KC-46A Depot Maintenance           81,000          81,000
                                                        Hangar.
AIR FORCE                      Tinker AFB              KC-46A Depot Fuel                  85,000          85,000
                                                        Maintenance Hangar.
                             Qatar
AIR FORCE                      Al Udeid                Personnel Deployment               40,000          40,000
                                                        Processing Facility.
AIR FORCE                      Al Udeid                Flightline Support                 30,400          30,400
                                                        Facilities.
                             South Carolina
AIR FORCE                      Shaw AFB                CPIP MQ-9 MCE Group......          53,000          53,000
                             Texas
AIR FORCE                      Joint Base San Antonio- BMT Recruit Dormitory 6..          25,000          25,000
                                Lackland
                             United Kingdom
AIR FORCE                      Royal Air Force         F-35A Fuel System                  16,880          16,880
                                Lakenheath              Maintenance Dock 2 Bay.
AIR FORCE                      Royal Air Force         F-35A Parking Apron......          27,431          27,431
                                Lakenheath
AIR FORCE                      Royal Air Force         F-35A AGE Facility.......          12,449          12,449
                                Lakenheath
AIR FORCE                      Royal Air Force         F-35A ADAL Parts Store...          13,926          13,926
                                Lakenheath
AIR FORCE                      Royal Air Force         F-35A 6 Bay Hangar.......          39,036          39,036
                                Lakenheath
AIR FORCE                      Royal Air Force         F-35A Dorm...............          29,541          29,541
                                Lakenheath
AIR FORCE                      Royal Air Force         F-35A ADAL Conventional             9,204           9,204
                                Lakenheath              Munitions MX.
                             Utah
AIR FORCE                      Hill AFB                Composite Aircraft                      0          26,000
                                                        Antenna Calibration Fac.
                             Washington
AIR FORCE                      White Bluff             ADAL JPRA C2 Mission                    0          14,000
                                                        Support Facility.
                             Worldwide Classified
AIR FORCE                      Classified Location     TACMOR--Utilities and              18,000          18,000
                                                        Infrastructure Support.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
AIR FORCE                      Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......               0          20,000
                                Locations
AIR FORCE                      Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......         195,577         195,577
                                Locations
AIR FORCE                      Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......          11,000          11,000
                                Locations
AIR FORCE                      Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor                  38,500          38,500
                                Locations               Military Construction.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE                                                               1,725,707       1,752,157
                               ......................
DEFENSE-WIDE
                             Alabama
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Anniston Army Depot     Install microgrid........               0          20,000
                             Alaska
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Clear AFS               Long Range Discrim Radar          174,000         130,000
                                                        Sys Complex Ph2.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Greely             Missile Field #1                    8,000           8,000
                                                        Expansion.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Joint Base Elmendorf-   Operations Facility                14,000          14,000
                                Richardson              Replacement.
                             Arkansas
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Little Rock AFB         Hydrant Fuel System                14,000          14,000
                                                        Alterations.
                             Belgium
DEFENSE-WIDE                   U.S. Army Garrison      Europe West District               14,305          14,305
                                Benelux (Chievres)      Superintendent's Office.
                             California
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Camp Pendleton          SOF EOD Facility--West...           3,547           3,547
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Camp Pendleton          SOF Human Performance               9,049           9,049
                                                        Training Center-West.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Coronado                SOF NSWG-1 Operations              25,172          25,172
                                                        Support Facility.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Coronado                SOF Close Quarters Combat          12,768          12,768
                                                        Facility.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Coronado                SOF ATC Applied                    14,819          14,819
                                                        Instruction Facility.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Coronado                SOF ATC Training Facility          18,329          18,329
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Defense Distribution    Main Access Control Point          18,800          18,800
                                Depot-Tracy             Upgrades.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   NB Ventura County       SNI Energy Storage System               0           6,530
                             Colorado
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Carson             SOF Human Performance              15,297          15,297
                                                        Training Center.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Carson             SOF Mountaineering                  9,000           9,000
                                                        Facility.
                             Conus Classified
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Classified Location     Battalion Complex, PH2...          49,222          49,222
                             Djibouti
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Camp Lemonnier          ECIP-Install PV Ground                  0           3,750
                                                        Array.
                             Germany
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Baumholder              SOF Joint Parachute                11,504          11,504
                                                        Rigging Facility.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Kaiserslautern AB       Kaiserslautern Middle              99,955          99,955
                                                        School.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Rhine Ordnance          Medical Center                    319,589         319,589
                                Barracks                Replacement Inc. 8.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Weisbaden               Clay Kaserne Elementary            56,048          56,048
                                                        School.
                             Greece
DEFENSE-WIDE                   NSA Souda Bay           Energy Management Control               0           2,230
                                                        Systems (EMCS).
                             Guam
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Naval Base Guam         P-691 NBG 74 Facilities                 0           4,634
                                                        Automated Controls.
                             Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Guantanamo Bay          Working Dog Treatment               9,080           9,080
                                                        Facility Replacement.
                             Hawaii
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Bellows AFB             Expand PV and provide                   0           2,944
                                                        energy resilience to
                                                        fire crash rescue.
                             Japan
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Camp McTureous          Bechtel Elementary School          94,851          94,851
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Iwakuni                 Fuel Pier................          33,200          33,200
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Kadena AB               Truck Unload Facilities..          21,400          21,400
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Yokosuka                Kinnick High School......         170,386          40,000
                             Kansas
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Salina Training Center  PV/Water Conservation &                 0           3,500
                                                        Energy Resilience.
                             Kentucky
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Campbell           Ft Campbell Middle School          62,634          62,634
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Campbell           SOF Logistics Support               5,435           5,435
                                                        Operations Facility.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Campbell           SOF Air/Ground Integ.               9,091           9,091
                                                        Urban Live Fire Range.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Campbell           SOF Multi-Use Helicopter            5,138           5,138
                                                        Training Facility.
                             Louisiana
DEFENSE-WIDE                   JRB NAS New Orleans     Distribution Switchgear..               0           5,340
                             Maine
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Kittery                 Consolidated Warehouse             11,600          11,600
                                                        Replacement.
                             Maryland
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Meade              NSAW Recapitalize                 218,000         191,600
                                                        Building #2 Inc 4.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Meade              NSAW Recapitalize                  99,000          99,000
                                                        Building #3 Inc 1.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Meade              Mission Support                    30,000          30,000
                                                        Operations Warehouse
                                                        Facility.
                             Missouri
DEFENSE-WIDE                   St Louis                Next NGA West (N2W)               213,600          50,000
                                                        Complex Phase 1 Inc. 2.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   St Louis                Next NGA West (N2W)               110,000         110,000
                                                        Complex Phase 2 Inc. 1.
                             New Jersey
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Joint Base McGuire-Dix- Hot Cargo Hydrant System           10,200          10,200
                                Lakehurst               Replacement.
                             North Carolina
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Bragg              SOF Replace Training Maze          12,109          12,109
                                                        and Tower.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Bragg              SOF SERE Resistance                20,257          20,257
                                                        Training Lab. Complex.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   New River               Amb Care Center/Dental             32,580          32,580
                                                        Clinic Replacement.
                             Oklahoma
DEFENSE-WIDE                   McAlester               Bulk Diesel System                  7,000           7,000
                                                        Replacement.
                             South Carolina
DEFENSE-WIDE                   MCAS Beaufort           Electrical Hardening and                0          22,402
                                                        Black Start CHP System.
                             Texas
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Camp Mabry              Install microgrid........               0           5,500
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Joint Base San Antonio- Energy Aerospace                   10,200          10,200
                                Lackland                Operations Facility.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Red River Army Depot    General Purpose Warehouse          71,500          71,500
                             United Kingdom
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Croughton RAF           Ambulatory Care Center             10,000               0
                                                        Addition/Alteration.
                             Virginia
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Dam Neck                SOF Magazines............           8,959           8,959
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort A.P. Hill          Training Campus..........          11,734          11,734
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Fort Belvoir            Human Performance                   6,127           6,127
                                                        Training Center.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Humphreys Engineer      Maintenance and Supply             20,257          20,257
                                Center                  Facility.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Joint Base Langley-     Fuel Facilities                     6,900           6,900
                                Eustis                  Replacement.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Joint Base Langley-     Ground Vehicle Fueling              5,800           5,800
                                Eustis                  Facility Replacement.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   NAS Oceana              Super Flight Line                       0           2,520
                                                        Electrical Distribtion
                                                        System (FLEDS).
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Pentagon                North Village VACP &               12,200          12,200
                                                        Fencing.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Pentagon                Exterior Infrastruc. &             23,650          23,650
                                                        Security Improvements.
                             Washington
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Joint Base Lewis-       Refueling Facility.......          26,200          26,200
                                McChord
                             Worldwide Unspecified
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design--                   0           5,000
                                Locations               ERCIP.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          55,925          55,925
                                Locations
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......             496             496
                                Locations
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  10,000          10,000
                                Locations               Construction.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          14,184          14,184
                                Locations
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  13,642          13,642
                                Locations               Construction.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   5,000           5,000
                                Locations               Construction.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Energy Resilience and             150,000         150,000
                                Locations               Conserv. Invest. Prog..
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Contingency Construction.          10,000          10,000
                                Locations
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,000           3,000
                                Locations               Construction.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          14,300          14,300
                                Locations
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   ERCIP Design.............          10,000          10,000
                                Locations
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Exercise Related Minor             12,479          12,479
                                Locations               Construction.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......           2,036           2,036
                                Locations
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Various Worldwide       Planning & Design........          42,705          42,705
                                Locations
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor                  17,366          17,366
                                Locations               Construction.
DEFENSE-WIDE                   Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......          55,699          55,699
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL DEFENSE-WIDE                                                            2,693,324       2,403,288
                               ......................
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
                             Alaska
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Joint Base Elmendorf-   United States Property &           27,000          27,000
                                Richardson              Fiscal Office.
                             Illinois
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Marseilles              Automated Record Fire               5,000           5,000
                                                        Range.
                             Montana
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Malta                   National Guard Readiness           15,000          15,000
                                                        Center.
                             Nevada
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            North Las Vegas         National Guard Readiness           32,000          32,000
                                                        Center.
                             New Hampshire
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Pembroke                National Guard Readiness           12,000          12,000
                                                        Center.
                             North Dakota
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Fargo                   National Guard Readiness           32,000          32,000
                                                        Center.
                             Ohio
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Camp Ravenna            Automated Multipurpose              7,400           7,400
                                                        Machine Gun Range.
                             Oklahoma
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Lexington               Aircraft vehicle storage                0          11,000
                                                        building.
                             Oregon
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Boardman                Tactical unmanned aerial                0          11,000
                                                        vehicle hangar.
                             South Dakota
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Rapid City              National Guard Readiness           15,000          15,000
                                                        Center.
                             Texas
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Houston                 Unheated vehicle storage                0          15,000
                                                        (aircraft).
                             Virginia
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Sandston                Army aviation support                   0          89,000
                                                        facility.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  18,100          18,100
                                Locations               Construction.
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD            Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          16,622          16,622
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY NATIONAL GUARD                                                       180,122         306,122
                               ......................
AIR NATIONAL GUARD
                             California
AIR NATIONAL GUARD             Channel Islands Angs    Construct C-130J Flight             8,000           8,000
                                                        Simulator Facility.
                             Hawaii
AIR NATIONAL GUARD             Joint Base Pearl        Construct Addition to F-           17,000          17,000
                                Harbor-Hickam           22 LO/CRF B3408.
                             Illinois
AIR NATIONAL GUARD             Gen. Wayne A. Downing   Construct New Fire Crash/           9,000           9,000
                                Peoria International    Rescue Station.
                                Airport
                             Louisiana
AIR NATIONAL GUARD             JRB NAS New Orleans     NORTHCOM--Construct Alert          15,000          15,000
                                                        Apron.
                             New York
AIR NATIONAL GUARD             Francis S. Gabreski     Security Forces/                   20,000          20,000
                                Airport                 Comm.training Facility.
                             Pennsylvania
AIR NATIONAL GUARD             Fort Indiantown Gap     Replace Operations                  8,000           8,000
                                                        Training/Dining Hall.
                             Puerto Rico
AIR NATIONAL GUARD             Luis Munoz Marin        Hurricane Maria--                       0          15,000
                                International           Communications Facility.
AIR NATIONAL GUARD             Luis Munoz Marin        Hurricane Maria--                       0          35,000
                                International Airport   Maintenance Hangar.
                             Virginia
AIR NATIONAL GUARD             Joint Base Langley-     Construct Cyber Ops                10,000          10,000
                                Eustis                  Facility.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
AIR NATIONAL GUARD             Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......               0           4,000
                                Locations
AIR NATIONAL GUARD             Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  23,626          23,626
                                Locations               Construction.
AIR NATIONAL GUARD             Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......          18,500          18,500
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR NATIONAL GUARD                                                        129,126         183,126
                               ......................
ARMY RESERVE
                             California
ARMY RESERVE                   Barstow                 ECS Modified TEMF /                34,000          34,000
                                                        Warehouse.
                             Wisconsin
ARMY RESERVE                   Fort McCoy              Transient Training                 23,000          23,000
                                                        Barracks.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
ARMY RESERVE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   2,064           2,064
                                Locations               Construction.
ARMY RESERVE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......           5,855           5,855
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY RESERVE                                                               64,919          64,919
                               ......................
NAVY RESERVE
                             California
NAVY RESERVE                   Seal Beach              Reserve Training Center..          21,740          21,740
                             Georgia
NAVY RESERVE                   Benning                 Reserve Training Center..          13,630          13,630
                             Worldwide Unspecified
NAVY RESERVE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,000           3,000
                                Locations               Construction.
NAVY RESERVE                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design........           4,695           4,695
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL NAVY RESERVE                                                               43,065          43,065
                               ......................
AIR FORCE RESERVE
                             Indiana
AIR FORCE RESERVE              Grissom ARB             Aerial Port Facility.....               0           9,400
AIR FORCE RESERVE              Grissom ARB             Add/Alter Aircraft                 12,100          12,100
                                                        Maintenance Hangar.
                             Minnesota
AIR FORCE RESERVE              Minneapolis-St Paul     Small Arms Range.........           9,000           9,000
                                IAP
                             Mississippi
AIR FORCE RESERVE              Keesler AFB             Aeromedical Staging                 4,550           4,550
                                                        Squadron Facility.
                             New York
AIR FORCE RESERVE              Niagara Falls IAP       Physical Fitness Center..          14,000          14,000
                             Texas
AIR FORCE RESERVE              Fort Worth              Munitions Training/Admin            3,100           3,100
                                                        Facility.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
AIR FORCE RESERVE              Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......               0           5,000
                                Locations
AIR FORCE RESERVE              Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design........           4,055           4,055
                                Locations
AIR FORCE RESERVE              Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,358           3,358
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE RESERVE                                                          50,163          64,563
                               ......................
NATO SECURITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM
                             Worldwide Unspecified
NATO SECURITY INVESTMENT       NATO Security           NATO Security Investment          171,064         171,064
 PROGRAM                        Investment Program      Program.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL NATO SECURITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM                                          171,064         171,064
                               ......................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION                                                      8,612,447       8,680,424
                               ......................
FAMILY HOUSING
CONSTRUCTION, ARMY
                             Germany
CONSTRUCTION, ARMY             Baumholder              Family Housing                     32,000          32,000
                                                        Improvements.
                             Italy
CONSTRUCTION, ARMY             Vicenza                 Family Housing New                 95,134          95,134
                                                        Construction.
                             Korea
CONSTRUCTION, ARMY             Camp Humphreys          Family Housing New                 85,000          85,000
                                                        Construction Incr 3.
CONSTRUCTION, ARMY             Camp Walker             Family Housing                     68,000          68,000
                                                        Replacement Construction.
                             Puerto Rico
CONSTRUCTION, ARMY             Fort Buchanan           Family Housing                     26,000          26,000
                                                        Replacement Construction.
                             Wisconsin
CONSTRUCTION, ARMY             Fort McCoy              Family Housing New                  6,200           6,200
                                                        Construction.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
CONSTRUCTION, ARMY             Unspecified Worldwide   Family Housing P & D.....          18,326          18,326
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION, ARMY                                                        330,660         330,660
                               ......................
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, ARMY
                             Worldwide Unspecified
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Management...............          36,302          36,302
 ARMY                           Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Services.................          10,502          10,502
 ARMY                           Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............          15,842          15,842
 ARMY                           Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous............             408             408
 ARMY                           Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............          75,530          75,530
 ARMY                           Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................          57,872          57,872
 ARMY                           Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................         161,252         161,252
 ARMY                           Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privitization              18,801          18,801
 ARMY                           Locations               Support.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, ARMY                                           376,509         376,509
                               ......................
CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS
                             Mariana Islands
CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND         Guam                    Replace Andersen Housing           83,441          83,441
 MARINE CORPS                                           PH III.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND         Unspecified Worldwide   Improvements, Washington           16,638          16,638
 MARINE CORPS                   Locations               DC.
CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND         Unspecified Worldwide   P&D Washington DC........           4,502           4,502
 MARINE CORPS                   Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS                                       104,581         104,581
                               ......................
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS
                             Worldwide Unspecified
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................          60,252          60,252
 NAVY AND MARINE CORPS          Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............          16,395          16,395
 NAVY AND MARINE CORPS          Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Management...............          50,870          50,870
 NAVY AND MARINE CORPS          Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous............             148             148
 NAVY AND MARINE CORPS          Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Services.................          16,261          16,261
 NAVY AND MARINE CORPS          Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................          62,515          62,515
 NAVY AND MARINE CORPS          Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............          86,328          86,328
 NAVY AND MARINE CORPS          Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization              21,767          21,767
 NAVY AND MARINE CORPS          Locations               Support.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS                          314,536         314,536
                               ......................
CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
                             Worldwide Unspecified
CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE        Unspecified Worldwide   Construction Improvements          75,247          75,247
                                Locations
CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE        Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design........           3,199           3,199
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE                                                    78,446          78,446
                               ......................
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
                             Worldwide Unspecified
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization....          22,205          22,205
 AIR FORCE                      Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................          48,566          48,566
 AIR FORCE                      Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Management...............          54,423          54,423
 AIR FORCE                      Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Services.................          13,669          13,669
 AIR FORCE                      Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............          30,645          30,645
 AIR FORCE                      Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous............           2,171           2,171
 AIR FORCE                      Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................          15,832          15,832
 AIR FORCE                      Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............         129,763         129,763
 AIR FORCE                      Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE                                      317,274         317,274
                               ......................
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
                             Worldwide Unspecified
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................           4,100           4,100
 DEFENSE-WIDE                   Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............             416             416
 DEFENSE-WIDE                   Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................             106             106
 DEFENSE-WIDE                   Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................          13,046          13,046
 DEFENSE-WIDE                   Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............             121             121
 DEFENSE-WIDE                   Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............             643             643
 DEFENSE-WIDE                   Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................          38,232          38,232
 DEFENSE-WIDE                   Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............              01              01
 DEFENSE-WIDE                   Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Services.................              02              02
 DEFENSE-WIDE                   Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................              09              09
 DEFENSE-WIDE                   Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............           1,542           1,542
 DEFENSE-WIDE                   Locations
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE,     Unspecified Worldwide   Management...............             155             155
 DEFENSE-WIDE                   Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE                                    58,373          58,373
                               ......................
IMPROVEMENT FUND
                             Worldwide Unspecified
IMPROVEMENT FUND               Unspecified Worldwide   Administrative Expenses--           1,653           1,653
                                Locations               FHIF.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL IMPROVEMENT FUND                                                            1,653           1,653
                               ......................
UNACCMP HSG IMPRV FUND
                             Worldwide Unspecified
UNACCMP HSG IMPRV FUND         Unaccompanied Housing   Administrative Expenses--             600             600
                                Improvement Fund        UHIF.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL UNACCMP HSG IMPRV FUND                                                        600             600
                               ......................
      TOTAL FAMILY HOUSING                                                             1,582,632       1,582,632
                               ......................
DEFENSE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE
ARMY
                             Worldwide Unspecified
ARMY                           Base Realignment &      Base Realignment and               62,796          62,796
                                Closure, Army           Closure.
                             ........................
                               ......................
NAVY
                             Worldwide Unspecified
NAVY                           Unspecified Worldwide   Base Realignment &                151,839         151,839
                                Locations               Closure.
                             ........................
                               ......................
AIR FORCE
                             Worldwide Unspecified
AIR FORCE                      Unspecified Worldwide   DoD BRAC Activities--Air           52,903          52,903
                                Locations               Force.
                             ........................
                               ......................
      TOTAL DEFENSE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE                                         267,538         267,538
                               ......................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, FAMILY HOUSING, AND BRAC                           10,462,617      10,530,594
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 State or Country and                                  FY 2019        Senate
           Account                   Installation               Project Title          Request      Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
ARMY
                              Bulgaria
ARMY                            Nevo Selo FOS            EDI: Ammunition Holding           5,200           5,200
                                                          Area.
                              Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
ARMY                            Guantanamo Bay           OCO: High Value Detention        69,000               0
                                                          Facility.
                              Poland
ARMY                            Drawsko Pomorski         EDI: Staging Areas........       17,000          17,000
                                 Training Area
ARMY                            Powidz AB                EDI: Rail Extension &            14,000          14,000
                                                          Railhead.
ARMY                            Powidz AB                EDI: Ammunition Storage          52,000          52,000
                                                          Facility.
ARMY                            Powidz AB                EDI: Bulk Fuel Storage....       21,000          21,000
ARMY                            Zagan Training Area      EDI: Rail Extension and           6,400           6,400
                                                          Railhead.
ARMY                            Zagan Training Area      EDI: Staging Areas........       34,000          34,000
                              Romania
ARMY                            Mihail Kogalniceanu FOS  EDI: Explosives & Ammo           21,651          21,651
                                                          Load/Unload Apron.
                              Worldwide Unspecified
ARMY                            Unspecified Worldwide    EDI: Planning and Design..       20,999          20,999
                                 Locations
                              .........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY                                                                      261,250         192,250
                                .......................
NAVY
                              Greece
NAVY                            Souda Bay                EDI: Marathi Logistics            6,200           6,200
                                                          Support Center.
NAVY                            Souda Bay                EDI: Joint Mobility              41,650          41,650
                                                          Processing Center.
                              Italy
NAVY                            Sigonella                EDI: P-8A Taxiway.........       66,050          66,050
                              Spain
NAVY                            Rota                     EDI: Port Operations             21,590          21,590
                                                          Facilities.
                              United Kingdom
NAVY                            Lossiemouth              EDI: P-8 Base Improvements       79,130          79,130
                              Worldwide Unspecified
NAVY                            Unspecified Worldwide    EDI: Planning and Design..       12,700          12,700
                                 Locations
                              .........................
      SUBTOTAL NAVY                                                                      227,320         227,320
                                .......................
AIR FORCE
                              Germany
AIR FORCE                       Ramstein AB              EDI--KMC DABS-FEV/RH            119,000         119,000
                                                          Storage Warehouses.
                              Norway
AIR FORCE                       Rygge AS                 EDI--Construct Taxiway....       13,800          13,800
                              Slovakia
AIR FORCE                       Malacky AB               EDI--Regional Munitions          59,000          59,000
                                                          Storage Area.
                              United Kingdom
AIR FORCE                       RAF Fairford             EDI--Construct DABS-FEV          87,000          87,000
                                                          Storage.
AIR FORCE                       RAF Fairford             EDI--Munitions Holding           19,000          19,000
                                                          Area.
                              Worldwide Unspecified
AIR FORCE                       Unspecified Worldwide    EDI--Planning & Design           48,000          48,000
                                 Locations                Funds.
                              .........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE                                                                 345,800         345,800
                                .......................
DEFENSE-WIDE
                              Estonia
DEFENSE-WIDE                    Unspecified Estonia      EDI: SOF Training Facility        9,600           9,600
DEFENSE-WIDE                    Unspecified Estonia      EDI: SOF Operations               6,100           6,100
                                                          Facility.
                              Qatar
DEFENSE-WIDE                    Al Udeid                 OCO: Trans-Regional              60,000          60,000
                                                          Logistics Complex.
                              Worldwide Unspecified
DEFENSE-WIDE                    Unspecified Worldwide    EDI: Planning and Design..        7,100           7,100
                                 Locations
DEFENSE-WIDE                    Various Worldwide        EDI: Planning and Design..        4,250           4,250
                                 Locations
                              .........................
      SUBTOTAL DEFENSE-WIDE                                                               87,050          87,050
                                .......................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION                                                        921,420         852,420
                                .......................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, FAMILY HOUSING, AND BRAC                              921,420         852,420
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2019        Senate
                  Program                      Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discretionary Summary By Appropriation
  Energy And Water Development, And
   Related Agencies
  Appropriation Summary:
    Energy Programs
      Nuclear Energy......................       136,090        136,090
 
    Atomic Energy Defense Activities
      National nuclear security
       administration:
        Weapons activities................    11,017,078     11,017,078
        Defense nuclear nonproliferation..     1,862,825      1,862,825
        Naval reactors....................     1,788,618      1,788,618
        Federal salaries and expenses.....       422,529        422,529
  Total, National nuclear security            15,091,050     15,091,050
   administration.........................
 
      Environmental and other defense
       activities:
        Defense environmental cleanup.....     5,630,217      5,630,217
        Other defense activities..........       853,300        853,300
        Defense nuclear waste disposal....        30,000              0
  Total, Environmental & other defense         6,513,517      6,483,517
   activities.............................
  Total, Atomic Energy Defense Activities.    21,604,567     21,574,567
  Total, Discretionary Funding............    21,740,657     21,710,657
 
Nuclear Energy
  Idaho sitewide safeguards and security..       136,090        136,090
  Total, Nuclear Energy...................       136,090        136,090
 
Weapons Activities
  Directed stockpile work
    Life extension programs and major
     alterations
      B61 Life extension program..........       794,049        794,049
      W76 Life extension program..........       113,888              0
         Split into W76-1 and W76-2 lines.                    [-113,888]
      W76-1 Life extension program........             0         48,888
         Complete W76-1 life extension....                      [48,888]
      W76-2 Warhead modification program..             0         65,000
         NPR Implementation...............                      [65,000]
      W88 Alt 370.........................       304,285        304,285
      W80-4 Life extension program........       654,766        654,766
      IW-1................................        53,000         53,000
  Total, Life extension programs and major     1,919,988      1,919,988
   alterations............................
 
    Stockpile systems
      B61 Stockpile systems...............        64,547         64,547
      W76 Stockpile systems...............        94,300         94,300
      W78 Stockpile systems...............        81,329         81,329
      W80 Stockpile systems...............        80,204         80,204
      B83 Stockpile systems...............        35,082         35,082
      W87 Stockpile systems...............        83,107         83,107
      W88 Stockpile systems...............       180,913        180,913
  Total, Stockpile systems................       619,482        619,482
 
    Weapons dismantlement and disposition
      Operations and maintenance..........        56,000         56,000
 
    Stockpile services
      Production support..................       512,916        512,916
      Research and development support....        38,129         38,129
      R&D certification and safety........       216,582        216,582
      Management, technology, and                300,736        300,736
       production.........................
  Total, Stockpile services...............     1,068,363      1,068,363
 
    Strategic materials
      Uranium sustainment.................        87,182         87,182
      Plutonium sustainment...............       361,282        361,282
      Tritium sustainment.................       205,275        205,275
      Lithium sustainment.................        29,135         29,135
      Domestic uranium enrichment.........       100,704        100,704
      Strategic materials sustainment.....       218,794        218,794
  Total, Strategic materials..............     1,002,372      1,002,372
  Total, Directed stockpile work..........     4,666,205      4,666,205
 
  Research, development, test and
   evaluation (RDT&E)
    Science
      Advanced certification..............        57,710         57,710
      Primary assessment technologies.....        95,057         95,057
      Dynamic materials properties........       131,000        131,000
      Advanced radiography................        32,544         32,544
      Secondary assessment technologies...        77,553         77,553
      Academic alliances and partnerships.        53,364         53,364
      Enhanced Capabilities for                  117,632        117,632
       Subcritical Experiments............
  Total, Science..........................       564,860        564,860
 
    Engineering
      Enhanced surety.....................        43,226         43,226
      Weapon systems engineering                  27,536         27,536
       assessment technology..............
      Nuclear survivability...............        48,230         48,230
      Enhanced surveillance...............        58,375         58,375
      Stockpile Responsiveness............        34,000         34,000
  Total, Engineering .....................       211,367        211,367
 
    Inertial confinement fusion ignition
     and high yield
      Ignition............................        22,434         22,434
      Support of other stockpile programs.        17,397         17,397
      Diagnostics, cryogenics and                 51,453         51,453
       experimental support...............
      Pulsed power inertial confinement            8,310          8,310
       fusion.............................
      Facility operations and target             319,333        319,333
       production.........................
  Total, Inertial confinement fusion and         418,927        418,927
   high yield.............................
 
    Advanced simulation and computing
      Advanced simulation and computing...       656,401        656,401
      Construction:
        18-D-670, Exascale Class Computer         24,000         24,000
         Cooling Equipment, LANL..........
        18-D-620, Exascale Computing              23,000         23,000
         Facility Modernization Project,
         LLNL.............................
  Total, Construction.....................        47,000         47,000
  Total, Advanced simulation and computing       703,401        703,401
 
    Advanced manufacturing
      Additive manufacturing..............        17,447         17,447
      Component manufacturing development.        48,477         48,477
      Process technology development......        30,914         30,914
  Total, Advanced manufacturing...........        96,838         96,838
  Total, RDT&E............................     1,995,393      1,995,393
 
  Infrastructure and operations
    Operations of facilities..............       891,000        891,000
    Safety and environmental operations...       115,000        115,000
    Maintenance and repair of facilities..       365,000        365,000
    Recapitalization:
      Infrastructure and safety...........       431,631        431,631
      Capability based investments........       109,057        109,057
  Total, Recapitalization.................       540,688        540,688
 
      Program increase to address high-
       priority deferred maintenance
 
    Construction:
      19-D-670, 138kV Power Transmission           6,000          6,000
       System Replacement, NNSS...........
      19-D-660, Lithium Production                19,000         19,000
       Capability, Y-12...................
      18-D-650, Tritium Production                27,000         27,000
       Capability, SRS....................
      17-D-640, U1a Complex Enhancements          53,000         53,000
       Project, NNSS......................
      16-D-515, Albuquerque complex               47,953         47,953
       project............................
      06-D-141 Uranium processing facility       703,000        703,000
       Y-12, Oak Ridge, TN................
      04-D-125 Chemistry and metallurgy          235,095        235,095
       research facility replacement
       project, LANL......................
  Total, Construction.....................     1,091,048      1,091,048
  Total, Infrastructure and operations....     3,002,736      3,002,736
 
  Secure transportation asset
    Operations and equipment..............       176,617        176,617
    Program direction.....................       102,022        102,022
  Total, Secure transportation asset......       278,639        278,639
 
  Defense nuclear security
    Operations and maintenance............       690,638        690,638
  Total, Defense nuclear security.........       690,638        690,638
 
  Information technology and cybersecurity       221,175        221,175
 
  Legacy contractor pensions..............       162,292        162,292
  Total, Weapons Activities...............    11,017,078     11,017,078
 
 
Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
  Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
   Programs
    Global material security
      International nuclear security......        46,339         46,339
      Domestic radiological security......        90,764         90,764
      International radiological security.        59,576         59,576
      Nuclear smuggling detection and            140,429        140,429
       deterrence.........................
  Total, Global material security.........       337,108        337,108
 
    Material management and minimization
      HEU reactor conversion..............        98,300         98,300
      Nuclear material removal............        32,925         32,925
      Material disposition................       200,869        200,869
  Total, Material management &                   332,094        332,094
   minimization...........................
 
    Nonproliferation and arms control.....       129,703        129,703
      Defense nuclear nonproliferation R&D       456,095        456,095
 
    Nonproliferation Construction:
      18-D-150 Surplus Plutonium                  59,000         59,000
       Disposition Project................
      99-D-143 Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel            220,000        220,000
       Fabrication Facility, SRS..........
  Total, Nonproliferation construction....       279,000        279,000
  Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation      1,534,000      1,534,000
   Programs...............................
 
  Legacy contractor pensions..............        28,640         28,640
  Nuclear counterterrorism and incident          319,185        319,185
   response program.......................
  Use of prior year balances..............       -19,000        -19,000
  Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation.     1,862,825      1,862,825
 
 
Naval Reactors
  Naval reactors development..............       514,951        514,951
  Columbia-Class reactor systems                 138,000        138,000
   development............................
  S8G Prototype refueling.................       250,000        250,000
  Naval reactors operations and                  525,764        525,764
   infrastructure.........................
  Construction:...........................                            0
    19-D-930, KS Overhead Piping..........        10,994         10,994
    17-D-911, BL Fire System Upgrade......        13,200         13,200
    14-D-901 Spent fuel handling                 287,000        287,000
     recapitalization project, NRF........
  Total, Construction.....................       311,194        311,194
  Program direction.......................        48,709         48,709
  Total, Naval Reactors...................     1,788,618      1,788,618
 
 
Federal Salaries And Expenses
  Program direction.......................       422,529        422,529
  Total, Office Of The Administrator......       422,529        422,529
 
 
Defense Environmental Cleanup
  Closure sites:
    Closure sites administration..........         4,889          4,889
 
  Richland:
    River corridor and other cleanup              89,577         89,577
     operations...........................
    Central plateau remediation...........       562,473        562,473
    Richland community and regulatory              5,121          5,121
     support..............................
    Construction:
      18-D-404 WESF Modifications and              1,000          1,000
       Capsule Storage....................
  Total, Construction.....................         1,000          1,000
  Total, Hanford site.....................       658,171        658,171
 
  Office of River Protection:
    Waste Treatment Immobilization Plant          15,000         15,000
     Commissioning........................
    Rad liquid tank waste stabilization          677,460        677,460
     and disposition......................
    Construction:
      15-D-409 Low activity waste                 56,053         56,053
       pretreatment system, ORP...........
         01-D-416 A-D WTP Subprojects A-D.       675,000        675,000
         01-D-416 E--Pretreatment Facility        15,000         15,000
  Total, Construction.....................       746,053        746,053
  Total, Office of River protection.......     1,438,513      1,438,513
 
  Idaho National Laboratory:
    SNF stabilization and disposition--           17,000         17,000
     2012.................................
    Solid waste stabilization and                148,387        148,387
     disposition..........................
    Radioactive liquid tank waste                137,739        137,739
     stabilization and disposition........
    Soil and water remediation--2035......        42,900         42,900
    Idaho community and regulatory support         3,200          3,200
  Total, Idaho National Laboratory........       349,226        349,226
 
  NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites
    Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory         1,704          1,704
    Nuclear facility D & D Separations            15,000         15,000
     Process Research Unit................
    Nevada................................        60,136         60,136
    Sandia National Laboratories..........         2,600          2,600
    Los Alamos National Laboratory........       191,629        191,629
  Total, NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites..       271,069        271,069
 
  Oak Ridge Reservation:
    OR Nuclear facility D & D
      OR-0041--D&D--Y-12..................        30,214         30,214
      OR-0042--D&D--ORNL..................        60,007         60,007
  Total, OR Nuclear facility D & D........        90,221         90,221
 
    U233 Disposition Program..............        45,000         45,000
 
    OR cleanup and waste disposition
      OR cleanup and disposition..........        67,000         67,000
      Construction:
        17-D-401 On-site waste disposal            5,000          5,000
         facility.........................
        14-D-403 Outfall 200 Mercury              11,274         11,274
         Treatment Facility...............
  Total, Construction.....................        16,274         16,274
  Total, OR cleanup and waste disposition.        83,274         83,274
 
    OR community & regulatory support.....         4,711          4,711
    OR technology development and                  3,000          3,000
     deployment...........................
  Total, Oak Ridge Reservation............       226,206        226,206
 
  Savannah River Sites:
    Nuclear Material Management...........       351,331        351,331
 
    Environmental Cleanup
      Environmental Cleanup...............       166,105        166,105
      Construction:
        18-D-402, Emergency Operations             1,259          1,259
         Center...........................
  Total, Environmental Cleanup............       167,364        167,364
 
    SR community and regulatory support...         4,749          4,749
      Radioactive liquid tank waste              805,686        805,686
       stabilization and disposition......
      Construction:
        18-D-401, SDU #8/9................        37,450         37,450
        17-D-402--Saltstone Disposal Unit         41,243         41,243
         #7...............................
        05-D-405 Salt waste processing            65,000         65,000
         facility, Savannah River Site....
  Total, Construction.....................       143,693        143,693
  Total, Savannah River site..............     1,472,823      1,472,823
 
  Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
    Operations and maintenance............       220,000        220,000
    Central characterization project......        19,500         19,500
    Critical Infrastructure Repair/               46,695         46,695
     Replacement..........................
    Transportation........................        25,500         25,500
    Construction:
      15-D-411 Safety significant                 84,212         84,212
       confinement ventilation system,
       WIPP...............................
      15-D-412 Exhaust shaft, WIPP........         1,000          1,000
  Total, Construction.....................        85,212         85,212
  Total, Waste Isolation Pilot Plant......       396,907        396,907
 
  Program direction.......................       300,000        300,000
  Program support.........................         6,979          6,979
  Minority Serving Institution Partnership         6,000          6,000
  Safeguards and Security
    Oak Ridge Reservation.................        14,023         14,023
    Paducah...............................        15,577         15,577
    Portsmouth............................        15,078         15,078
    Richland/Hanford Site.................        86,686         86,686
    Savannah River Site...................       183,357        183,357
    Waste Isolation Pilot Project.........         6,580          6,580
    West Valley...........................         3,133          3,133
  Total, Safeguards and Security..........       324,434        324,434
 
  Technology development..................        25,000         25,000
  HQEF-0040--Excess Facilities............       150,000        150,000
  Total, Defense Environmental Cleanup....     5,630,217      5,630,217
 
Other Defense Activities
  Environment, health, safety and security
    Environment, health, safety and              135,194        135,194
     security.............................
    Program direction.....................        70,653         70,653
  Total, Environment, Health, safety and         205,847        205,847
   security...............................
 
  Independent enterprise assessments
    Independent enterprise assessments....        24,068         24,068
    Program direction.....................        52,702         52,702
  Total, Independent enterprise                   76,770         76,770
   assessments............................
 
  Specialized security activities.........       254,378        254,378
  Office of Legacy Management
    Legacy management.....................       140,575        140,575
    Program direction.....................        18,302         18,302
  Total, Office of Legacy Management......       158,877        158,877
 
  Defense related administrative support
    Chief financial officer...............        48,484         48,484
    Chief information officer.............        96,793         96,793
    Project management oversight and               8,412          8,412
     Assessments..........................
  Total, Defense related administrative          153,689        153,689
   support................................
 
  Office of hearings and appeals..........         5,739          5,739
  Subtotal, Other defense activities......       855,300        855,300
  Rescission of prior year balances (OHA).        -2,000         -2,000
  Total, Other Defense Activities.........       853,300        853,300
 
 
Defense Nuclear Waste Disposal
  Yucca mountain and interim storage......        30,000              0
    Program cut...........................                     [-30,000]
  Total, Defense Nuclear Waste Disposal...        30,000              0
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                       Calendar No. 439

115th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2987

                          [Report No. 115-262]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2019 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
   for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
   military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              June 5, 2018

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
</pre></body></html>
