<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1215 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






116th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1215

     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense and for military construction, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 11, 2019

   Mr. Inhofe (for himself and Mr. Reed) (by request) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                             Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense and for military construction, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2020''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Army.
Sec. 102. Navy and Marine Corps.
Sec. 103. Air Force.
Sec. 104. Defense-wide activities.
Sec. 105. Defense Production Act purchases.
       Subtitle B--Defense-Wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 111. Economic order quantity contracting authority F-35 joint 
                            strike fighter program.
         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Operation and maintenance funding.
                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Expediting Federal agency environmental reviews.
Sec. 312. Native American lands environmental mitigation program.
Sec. 313. Inclusion of over-the-horizon radars in early outreach 
                            procedures and voluntary contributions.
                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 321. Inclusion of product support providers in public-private 
                            partnerships with respect to Centers of 
                            Industrial and Technical Excellence.
Sec. 322. Inclusion of depot services as eligible for sales by 
                            industrial facilities.
Sec. 323. Logistics support and services for weapon systems 
                            contractors.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 331. Updating and modernizing the Department of Defense explosives 
                            safety board.
Sec. 332. Officers authorized to command Army dental units.
Sec. 333. Expanded transfer and adoption of military animals.
Sec. 334. Repeal of statutory requirement for Commander of the Defense 
                            Logistics Agency to be notified three years 
                            prior to implementing changes to any 
                            uniform or uniform component.
Sec. 335. Transition from service-specific Defense Readiness Reporting 
                            Systems.
              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for reserves on active duty in support of the 
                            reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on 
                            active duty for operational support.
Sec. 415. Authorized strengths for Marine Corps Reserves on active 
                            duty.
Sec. 416. Authorized strength: exclusion of certain reserve component 
                            general and flag officers on active duty.
              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 431. Authorities of Secretary of Defense and Service Secretaries 
                            to vary personnel end strengths.
                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Revision to management policies for joint qualified officers.
Sec. 502. Repeal of report on end-of-quarter strength levels.
Sec. 503. Original appointment authority.
                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Repeal of requirement for review of certain Army reserve 
                            officer unit vacancy promotions by 
                            commanders of associated active duty units.
Subtitle C--General Service Authorities and Correction Military Records

Sec. 521. Reduction in required number of members of discharge review 
                            boards.
Sec. 522. Privacy Act exclusion for courts-martial to allow for public 
                            access to dockets, filings, and court 
                            records.
                      Subtitle D--Military Justice

Sec. 531. Revisions to requirements relating to Department of Defense 
                            policy on evidence retention to reflect the 
                            length of time a sexual assault forensic 
                            examination (SAFE) kit must be retained.
Sec. 532. Command influence under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
   Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Resilience, and Transition

Sec. 541. Enhancing joint professional military education.
Sec. 542. Eligibility of additional enlisted members for associate 
                            degree programs of the Community College of 
                            the Air Force.
Sec. 543. Degree granting authority for United States Army Armament 
                            Graduate School.
Sec. 544. Authority for the military departments' accredited 
                            institutions to accept research grants.
Sec. 545. Preparation of budget requests for operation of professional 
                            military education schools.
                   Subtitle F--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 551. Expansion of Gold Star Lapel Button eligibility to 
                            stepbrothers and stepsisters.
Sec. 552. Authority to award or present a decoration following a 
                            congressionally requested review.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 561. Expansion of personal property tax relief for servicemembers.
Sec. 562. Clarification regarding military orders required for 
                            termination of leases pursuant to the 
                            Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.
Sec. 563. Clarification of requirements for residence and domicile tax 
                            relief under the Servicemembers Civil 
                            Relief Act.
Sec. 564. Determination of residence or domicile for tax purposes of 
                            spouses of military personnel.
Sec. 565. Extension of protections for servicemembers against default 
                            judgments.
          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

Sec. 601. Inclusion of active duty service for a preplanned mission as 
                            eligible service for reduction of 
                            eligibility age for a non-regular 
                            retirement.
Sec. 602. Authority to waive recoupment of separation pay, severance 
                            pay, or readjustment pay for involuntary 
                            discharge for members who subsequently 
                            become entitled to retired or retainer pay.
Sec. 603. Authority for payment of death gratuity to trusts.
Sec. 604. Payment of transitional compensation for certain dependents.
Sec. 605. Treatment of commissary user fees.
Sec. 606. One-year extension of certain expiring bonus and special pay 
                            authorities.
                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

Sec. 701. Reauthorization of demonstration project for health care 
                            coverage through the Federal Employees 
                            Health Benefits Program.
Sec. 702. Revision of authority for sole source contracts with 
                            designated providers.
Sec. 703. Five-year extension of authority to continue the DOD-VA 
                            health care incentive fund.
Sec. 704. Clarification of Office of Special Needs policy for 
                            individualized services plans.
Sec. 705. Military health system fraud and abuse prevention program.
Sec. 706. Extension and clarification of authority for the joint 
                            Department of Defense-Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs medical facility 
                            demonstration project.
Sec. 707. Strengthening the Department of Defense Academic Health 
                            System in the National Capital Region.
Sec. 708. Endowments at the Uniformed Services University of the Health 
                            Sciences.
Sec. 709. Authority to plan, design, and construct, or lease, shared 
                            medical facilities with Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 710. TRICARE payment options for retirees.
Sec. 711. Modification of eligibility for TRICARE Reserve Select and 
                            TRICARE Retired Reserve of certain members 
                            of the reserve components.
  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 801. Senior Military Acquisition Advisor eligibility.
Sec. 802. Reestablishment of authority for Joint Urgent Operational 
                            Needs Fund.
Sec. 803. Authority for life-of-type buys to prevent materiel shortages 
                            associated with diminishing manufacturing 
                            sources and obsolescence.
Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

Sec. 811. Use of technical data during challenges.
Sec. 812. Codification and permanent authorization of the Mentor-
                            Protege Program.
Sec. 813. Removal of prohibition on delegation of determinations for 
                            improved conventional defense capabilities 
                            in cooperative research and development 
                            agreements.
Sec. 814. Authority to cease selected acquisition reporting on certain 
                            major defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 815. Pilot program to accelerate contracting and pricing 
                            processes.
Sec. 816. Extension of authority to acquire products and services 
                            produced in countries along a major route 
                            of supply to Afghanistan.
Sec. 817. Extension and revision of direct hire authority for technical 
                            experts into the defense acquisition 
                            workforce.
Sec. 818. Amendments to research project transaction authorities to 
                            eliminate cost-sharing requirements and 
                            reduce burdens on use.
Sec. 819. Defense Modernization Account.
             Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Small Business

Sec. 821. Change of basis for calculating required expenditure amount 
                            for SBIR and STTR.
Sec. 822. Phase flexibility permanency for Small Business Innovation 
                            Research and Small Business Technology 
                            Transfer programs.
Sec. 823. Permanency of administrative funds pilot program.
Sec. 824. Clarification of eligibility for sequential phase II awards.
Sec. 825. Partnership intermediary pilot program.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 831. Timeliness rules for filing bid protests at the United States 
                            Court of Federal Claims.
Sec. 832. Removing barriers to, and extension of, the Defense 
                            Production Act.
Sec. 833. Authority to enter into contracts for contracted adversary 
                            air and contracted close air support.
      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

Sec. 901. Update of authorities relating to nuclear command, control, 
                            and communications.
Sec. 902. Codification and permanent extension of Government lodging 
                            program.
                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1001. Refueling and complex overhaul of USS John C. Stennis.
Sec. 1002. Reduction in the minimum number of Navy carrier air wings 
                            and carrier air wing headquarters required 
                            to be maintained.
Sec. 1003. Ensuring operational readiness of littoral combat ships on 
                            extended deployments.
Sec. 1004. Regulation of discharges incidental to the normal operations 
                            of a vessel of the Armed Forces under the 
                            Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
Sec. 1005. Providing protection to the National Museum of the Marine 
                            Corps and the National Museum of the United 
                            States Army.
Sec. 1006. Revisions to working-capital funds statute.
Sec. 1007. Access to and use of military postal service by U.S. 
                            citizens employed overseas by the North 
                            Atlantic Treaty Organization who perform 
                            functions in support of military operations 
                            of the Armed Forces of the United States.
Sec. 1008. Permanent authority of Secretary of Transportation to issue 
                            non-premium aviation insurance.
Sec. 1009. Extension of authority for Secretary of Defense to use 
                            Department of Defense reimbursement rate 
                            for transportation services provided to 
                            certain non-Department of Defense entities.
Sec. 1010. Increase of minimum dollar threshold for Department of 
                            Defense interest penalty payments.
Sec. 1011. Technical and grammatical corrections and repeal of obsolete 
                            provisions relating to energy.
Sec. 1012. Inclusion of veterans on temporary disability or permanent 
                            disabled retirement lists in military 
                            adaptive sports programs.
Sec. 1013. Revision to authorities relating to mail service for members 
                            of the Armed Forces and Department of 
                            Defense civilians overseas.
Sec. 1014. Clarification of inspector general authorities concerning 
                            overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1015. Licensure requirements for Department of Defense veterinary 
                            professionals: emergencies and disasters.
Sec. 1016. Elimination of requirement to submit reports to Congress in 
                            paper format.
Sec. 1017. Clarification of the authority of military commissions 
                            established under chapter 47A to punish 
                            contempt.
Sec. 1018. Tariffs on aircraft traveling through channel routes.
Sec. 1019. Transfer of administrative jurisdiction and control over 
                            public lands located in Arlington, 
                            Virginia.
                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

Sec. 1101. Enhancement of capabilities to manage civilian faculty at 
                            Army and Navy educational institutions.
Sec. 1102. Employment authority for civilian faculty at certain 
                            military department schools.
Sec. 1103. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation 
                            on premium pay and aggregate limitation on 
                            pay for Federal civilian employees working 
                            overseas.
Sec. 1104. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
                            allowances, benefits, and gratuities to 
                            civilian personnel on official duty in a 
                            combat zone.
Sec. 1105. Revision to certain overseas contingency operations-related 
                            inspector general authorities: hiring 
                            authorities.
             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

Sec. 1201. Extension of cross-servicing agreements for loan of 
                            personnel protection and survivability 
                            equipment in coalition operations.
Sec. 1202. Extension of Commanders' Emergency Response Program.
Sec. 1203. Authority to reimburse National Guard and reserve salaries 
                            for certain activities in support of the 
                            Department of State.
Sec. 1204. Department of Defense support to stabilization activities in 
                            the national security interest of the 
                            United States.
Sec. 1205. Extension of authority for support of special operations for 
                            irregular warfare.
Sec. 1206. Extension of authority for reimbursement of certain 
                            coalition nations for support provided to 
                            United States military operations.
Sec. 1207. Extension of Afghan Special Immigrant Program.
Sec. 1208. NATO special operations headquarters.
Sec. 1209. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1210. Extension of authority to support operations and activities 
                            of the Office of Security Cooperation in 
                            Iraq.
Sec. 1211. Extension of authority to provide assistance to the vetted 
                            Syrian opposition.
Sec. 1212. Extension of authority to provide assistance to counter the 
                            Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
Sec. 1213. Provision of goods and services at Kwajalein Atoll, Republic 
                            of the Marshall Islands.
Sec. 1214. Availability of appropriations for Ri'katak Guest Student 
                            Program at United States Army Garrison-
                            Kwajalein Atoll.
Sec. 1215. Two-year extension of program authority for the Global 
                            Security Contingency Fund.
                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Authority to carry out Department of Defense Cooperative 
                            Threat Reduction Program.
Sec. 1302. Use of contributions to Department of Defense Cooperative 
                            Threat Reduction Program.
                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Joint Urgent Operational Needs Fund.
Sec. 1403. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1404. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1405. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1406. Defense Health Program.
                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 1411. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
                            Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
                            Medical Facility Demonstration Fund for 
                            Captain James A. Lovell Health Care Center, 
                            Illinois.
Sec. 1412. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
                            Home.
   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

Sec. 1501. Purpose.
Sec. 1502. Army procurement.
Sec. 1503. Navy and Marine Corps procurement.
Sec. 1504. Air Force procurement.
Sec. 1505. Defense-wide activities procurement.
Sec. 1506. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1507. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1508. Military personnel.
Sec. 1509. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1510. Defense Health Program.
Sec. 1511. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1512. Defense Inspector General.
     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Demonstration of backup and complementary positioning, 
                            navigation, and timing capabilities of 
                            global positioning system.
  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

Sec. 1611. Authority to provide additional allowances and benefits for 
                            Defense Clandestine Service employees.
Sec. 1612. Modification of integration of Department of Defense 
                            intelligence, surveillance, and 
                            reconnaissance capabilities.
Sec. 1613. Renaming the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence to 
                            Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
                            and Security.
Sec. 1614. Expenditure of funds for Department of Defense intelligence 
                            and counterintelligence activities.
                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

Sec. 1621. Authority to use operation and maintenance funds for cyber 
                            operations-peculiar capability development 
                            projects.
Sec. 1622. Expansion of authority for access and information relating 
                            to cyberattacks on Department of Defense 
                            operationally critical contractors.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 1631. Additional protection of certain facilities and assets from 
                            unmanned aircraft threats.
                        TITLE XVII--SPACE FORCE

                 Subtitle A--United States Space Force

Sec. 1701. Establishment of United States Space Force in the Department 
                            of the Air Force.
Sec. 1702. Under Secretary of the Air Force for Space.
Sec. 1703. Inclusion of the Space Force on the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
                            and Joint Staff.
Sec. 1704. Civilian personnel supporting the Space Force.
Sec. 1705. Decorations and awards.
Sec. 1706. Repeal of provision related to Air Force Space Command.
Sec. 1707. Transfer of personnel, property, and resources and other 
                            transition matters.
                   Subtitle B--Conforming Amendments

Sec. 1711. Department of the Air Force provisions in title 10, United 
                            States Code.
Sec. 1712. Other provisions of title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 1713. Title 5, United States Code.
Sec. 1714. Title 14, United States Code.
Sec. 1715. Title 18, United States Code.
Sec. 1716. Title 31, United States Code.
Sec. 1717. Title 37, United States Code.
Sec. 1718. Title 38, United States Code.
Sec. 1719. Title 41, United States Code.
Sec. 1720. Title 51, United States Code.
Sec. 1721. Other provisions of law.
            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
                            specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.
                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2019 project.
                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2015 project.
Sec. 2306. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2016 project.
Sec. 2307. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2017 project.
Sec. 2308. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2018 projects.
Sec. 2309. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2019 projects.
           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized energy conservation projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.
             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.
            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
                            construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.
          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
                            closure activities funded through 
                            Department of Defense Base Closure Account.
         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 2801. Revision to architectural and engineering services and 
                            construction design authority.
Sec. 2802. Expansion of temporary authority for acceptance and use of 
                            contributions for certain construction, 
                            maintenance, and repair projects mutually 
                            beneficial to the Department of Defense and 
                            the military forces of Kuwait and the 
                            Republic of Korea.
Sec. 2803. Authorized cost variations for unspecified minor military 
                            construction.
Sec. 2804. Modification of alternative authority for acquisition and 
                            improvement of military housing.
   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2901. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2904. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2905. Authorization of appropriations.
                TITLE XXX--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FUNDING

Sec. 3001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.
Sec. 3002. Military construction table.
Sec. 3003. Military construction table for overseas contingency 
                            operations.
Sec. 3004. Military construction table for emergency funding.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 101. ARMY.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for procurement for the Army as follows:
            (1) For aircraft, $3,696,429,000.
            (2) For weapons and tracked combat vehicles, 
        $4,715,566,000.
            (3) For other procurement, $7,443,101,000.

SEC. 102. NAVY AND MARINE CORPS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for procurement for the Navy and Marine Corps as follows:
            (1) For aircraft, $18,522,204,000.
            (2) For shipbuilding and conversion, $23,783,710,000.
            (3) For other procurement, $9,652,956,000.
            (4) For procurement, Marine Corps, $3,090,449,000.

SEC. 103. AIR FORCE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for procurement for the Air Force as follows:
            (1) For aircraft, $16,784,279,000.
            (2) For missiles, $2,889,187,000.
            (3) For space procurement, $2,414,383,000.
            (4) For other procurement, $20,687,857,000.

SEC. 104. DEFENSE-WIDE ACTIVITIES.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for Defense-wide procurement in the amount of $5,109,416,000.

SEC. 105. DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT PURCHASES.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for purchases under the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4501 
et seq.) in the amount of $34,393,000.

       Subtitle B--Defense-Wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

SEC. 111. ECONOMIC ORDER QUANTITY CONTRACTING AUTHORITY F-35 JOINT 
              STRIKE FIGHTER PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsections (b) through (e), from 
amounts made available for obligation under the F-35 aircraft program, 
the Secretary of Defense may enter into one or more contracts, 
beginning with the fiscal year 2020 program year, for the procurement 
of economic order quantities of material and equipment that have 
completed formal hardware qualification testing for the F-35 aircraft 
program for use in procurement contracts to be awarded for such program 
during fiscal years 2021 through 2023.
    (b) Limitation.--The total amount obligated under all contracts 
entered into under subsection (a) shall not exceed $574,000,000.
    (c) Preliminary Findings.--Before entering into a contract under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall make each of the following findings 
with respect to such contract:
            (1) The use of such a contract will result in significant 
        savings of the total anticipated costs of carrying out the 
        program through annual contract.
            (2) The minimum need for the property to be procured is 
        expected to remain substantially unchanged during the 
        contemplated contract period in terms of production rate, 
        procurement rate, and total quantities.
            (3) There is a reasonable expectation that, throughout the 
        contemplated contract period, the Secretary will request 
        funding for the contract at the level required to avoid 
        contract cancellation.
            (4) There is a stable design for the property to be 
        procured and the technical risks associated with such property 
        are not excessive.
            (5) The estimates of both the cost of the contract and the 
        anticipated cost avoidance through the use of an economic order 
        quantity contract are realistic.
            (6) Entering into the contract will promote the national 
        security interests of the United States.
    (d) Certification Requirement.--Except as provided in subsection 
(e), the Secretary of Defense may not enter into a contract under 
subsection (a) until a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date 
on which the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense 
committees, in writing, that each of the following conditions is 
satisfied:
            (1) A sufficient number of end items of the system being 
        acquired under such contract have been delivered at or within 
        the most recently available estimates of the program 
        acquisition unit cost or procurement unit cost for such system 
        to determine that the estimates of the unit costs are 
        realistic.
            (2) During the fiscal year in which such contract is to be 
        awarded, sufficient funds will be available to perform the 
        contract in such fiscal year, and the future-years defense 
        program submitted to Congress under section 221 of title 10, 
        United States Code, for that fiscal year will include the 
        funding required to execute the program without cancellation.
            (3) The contract is a fixed-price type contract.
            (4) The proposed contract provides for production at not 
        less than minimum economic rates given the existing tooling and 
        facilities.
            (5) The Secretary has determined that each of the 
        conditions described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of 
        subsection (c) will be met by such contract and has provided 
        the basis for such determination to the congressional defense 
        committees.
            (6) The determination under paragraph (5) was made after 
        the completion of a cost analysis performed by the Director of 
        Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation for the purpose of 
        section 2334(f)(2) of title 10, United States Code, and the 
        analysis supports that determination.
    (e) Exception.--Notwithstanding subsection (d), the Secretary of 
Defense may enter into a contract under subsection (a) on or after 
December 1, 2019, if--
            (1) the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation 
        has not completed a cost analysis of the preliminary findings 
        made by the Secretary under subsection (c) with respect to the 
        contract;
            (2) the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense 
        committees, in writing, that each of the conditions described 
        in paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (d) is satisfied; 
        and
            (3) a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date on 
        which the Secretary submits the certification under paragraph 
        (2).

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation as follows:
            (1) For the Army, $12,192,771,000.
            (2) For the Navy, $20,270,499,000.
            (3) For the Air Force, $45,616,122,000.
            (4) For Defense-wide activities, $24,346,953,000.
            (5) For the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, 
        $221,200,000.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUNDING.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, in amounts as follows:
            (1) For the Army, $22,797,873,000.
            (2) For the Navy, $25,952,718,000.
            (3) For the Marine Corps, $3,928,045,000.
            (4) For the Air Force, $21,278,499,000.
            (5) For the Space Force, $72,436,000.
            (6) For Defense-wide activities, $37,399,341,000.
            (7) For the Army Reserve, $1,080,103,000.
            (8) For the Navy Reserve, $261,284,000.
            (9) For the Marine Corps Reserve, $61,090,000.
            (10) For the Air Force Reserve, $2,231,445,000.
            (11) For the Army National Guard, $3,335,755,000.
            (12) For the Air National Guard, $3,612,156,000.
            (13) For the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed 
        Forces, $14,771,000.
            (14) For Environmental Restoration, Army, $207,518,000.
            (15) For Environmental Restoration, Navy, $335,932,000.
            (16) For Environmental Restoration, Air Force, 
        $302,744,000.
            (17) For Environmental Restoration, Defense-wide, 
        $9,105,000.
            (18) For Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense 
        Sites, $216,499,000.
            (19) For Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid 
        programs, $108,600,000.
            (20) For Cooperative Threat Reduction programs, 
        $338,700,000.
            (21) For Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
        Development Fund, $400,000,000.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

SEC. 311. EXPEDITING FEDERAL AGENCY ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEWS.

    (a) Definition of Service.--In this section the term ``Service'' 
means the National Marine Fisheries Service or the United States Fish 
and Wildlife Service, as appropriate.
    (b) Agreements Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of a military department is 
        authorized to enter into an agreement with a Service to 
        expedite an environmental review, planning, consultation, 
        permitting, or approval process under the Marine Mammal 
        Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.) or the 
        Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) for a 
        project or program undertaken by the military department.
            (2) Agreement contents.--Each such agreement shall--
                    (A) provide for a payment to a Service for the 
                estimated or actual expenses of undertaking an 
                expedited environmental review, planning, consultation, 
                permitting, or approval process for a project or 
                program undertaken by the military, including payment 
                for--
                            (i) support of or participation in military 
                        planning activities that precede the initiation 
                        of the environmental review process;
                            (ii) activities directly related to the 
                        environmental review process, including any 
                        associated permitting, authorization, 
                        consultation or approval process;
                            (iii) dedicated staffing of agency 
                        personnel;
                            (iv) information gathering or mapping; or
                            (v) development of programmatic agreements;
                    (B) specify the amount of and basis for the payment 
                the Secretary will provide to the Service pursuant to 
                the agreement; and
                    (C) require the Director of the Service to use the 
                payment received pursuant to the agreement only to 
                contribute toward undertaking the environmental review, 
                planning, consultation, permitting, or approval process 
                within the time period described in subsection (c)(1).
    (c) Payment Conditions.--The Secretary of a military department may 
provide a payment pursuant to an agreement under this section only if--
            (1) the Secretary determines that it is in the interest of 
        national defense to complete an environmental review, planning, 
        consultation, permitting, or approval process by a Service 
        under an Act described in subsection (b) for a project or 
        program undertaken by the military department within a 
        particular time period; and
            (2) the Director of a Service provides to the Secretary 
        notice that the Service does not have sufficient funds or 
        adequate personnel to complete such environmental review, 
        planning, consultation, permitting, or approval process within 
        such time period.
    (d) Payment Funding.--The Secretary of a military department may 
use funds available for operations and maintenance to make payments 
pursuant to an agreement under this section.
    (e) Crediting of Payments.--Payments to a Service under this 
section, including any payments provided in advance, may be credited to 
the appropriations of such agency for salaries and expenses. Subject to 
satisfaction of the requirements of subparagraphs (B) and (C) of 
subsection (b)(2), on use of payments by the Director of a Service, 
amounts so paid shall be merged with and shall be available for the 
same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations so 
credited.
    (f) Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this section, the Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance to 
implement this section.

SEC. 312. NATIVE AMERICAN LANDS ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 160 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2712. Native American lands environmental mitigation program
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense may establish and 
carry out a program to mitigate the environmental effects of Department 
of Defense actions on Indian lands and culturally connected locations.
    ``(b) Program Activities.--The activities that may be carried out 
under the program established under subsection (a) are the following:
            ``(1) Identification, investigation, and documentation of 
        suspected environmental effects attributable to past Department 
        of Defense actions.
            ``(2) Development of mitigation options for such 
        environmental effects, including development of cost-to-
        complete estimates and a system for prioritizing mitigation 
        actions.
            ``(3) Direct mitigation actions that the Secretary 
        determines are necessary and appropriate to mitigate the 
        adverse environmental effects of past Department of Defense 
        actions.
            ``(4) Demolition and removal of unsafe buildings and 
        structures used by, under the jurisdiction of, or formerly used 
        by or under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense.
            ``(5) Training, technical assistance, and administrative 
        support to facilitate the meaningful participation of Indian 
        tribes in mitigation actions under the program.
            ``(6) Development and execution of a policy governing 
        consultation with Indian tribes that have been or may be 
        affected by Department of Defense actions, including training 
        Department of Defense personnel to ensure compliance with the 
        policy.
    ``(c) Cooperative Agreements.--(1) In carrying out the program 
established under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may enter 
into a cooperative agreement with an Indian tribe or an instrumentality 
of tribal government.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31, a cooperative 
agreement under this section may be used to acquire property or 
services for the direct benefit of the United States Government.
    ``(3) Any cooperative agreement under this section for the 
procurement of severable services may begin in one fiscal year and end 
in another fiscal year provided the total period of performance does 
not exceed two calendar years.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `Indian land' includes--
                    ``(A) any land located within the boundaries and a 
                part of an Indian reservation, pueblo, or rancheria;
                    ``(B) any land that has been allotted to an 
                individual Indian but has not been conveyed to such 
                Indian with full power of alienation;
                    ``(C) Alaska Native village and regional 
                corporation lands; and
                    ``(D) lands and waters upon which any federally 
                recognized Indian tribe has rights reserved by treaty, 
                act of Congress, or action by the President.
            ``(2) The term `Indian tribe' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 2701(d)(4)(A) of this title.
            ``(3) The term `culturally connected location' means a 
        location or place that has demonstrable significance to Indians 
        or Alaska Natives based on its association with the traditional 
        beliefs, customs, and practices of a living community, 
        including locations or places where religious, ceremonial, 
        subsistence, medicinal, economic, or other lifeways practices 
        have historically taken place.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2711 the following new item:

``2712. Native American lands environmental mitigation program.''.

SEC. 313. INCLUSION OF OVER-THE-HORIZON RADARS IN EARLY OUTREACH 
              PROCEDURES AND VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS.

    Section 183a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(6) in the second sentence, by 
        striking ``or airport surveillance radar'' and inserting ``, 
        airport surveillance radar, or wide area surveillance over-the-
        horizon radar''; and
            (2) in subsection (f) in the first sentence, by striking 
        ``applicant for a project filed with the Secretary of 
        Transportation pursuant to section 44718 of title 49'' and 
        inserting ``entity requesting a review by the Clearinghouse 
        under this section''.

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

SEC. 321. INCLUSION OF PRODUCT SUPPORT PROVIDERS IN PUBLIC-PRIVATE 
              PARTNERSHIPS WITH RESPECT TO CENTERS OF INDUSTRIAL AND 
              TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (b) of section 2474 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                inserting ``or the head of a component that provides 
                product support to the Center (in this section referred 
                to as a `product support provider')'' after ``the head 
                of the Center'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``a product 
                support provider,'' after ``employees of the Center,''; 
                and
                    (C) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or a 
                product support provider'' after ``the Center''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and product 
                support providers'' after ``Center of Industrial and 
                Technical Excellence'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or a 
                facility of a product support provider'' after 
                ``Center'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``or a 
                facility of a product support provider'' after 
                ``Center''; and
                    (D) in subparagraph (D)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by inserting ``or a 
                        product support provider'' after ``Center''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``at a 
                        Center'' and inserting ``of a Center or a 
                        product support provider''.
    (b) Private Sector Use of Excess Capacity.--Subsection (c) of such 
section is amended by inserting ``or a product support provider'' after 
``Center of Industrial and Technical Excellence''.
    (c) Crediting of Amounts for Performance.--Subsection (d) of such 
section is amended in the first sentence by inserting ``or a product 
support provider'' after ``Center''.
    (d) Availability of Excess Equipment to Private-Sector Partners.--
Subsection (e) of such section is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting 
        ``or a product support provider'' after ``Center of Industrial 
        and Technical Excellence''; and
            (2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or a product support 
        provider'' after ``Center''.

SEC. 322. INCLUSION OF DEPOT SERVICES AS ELIGIBLE FOR SALES BY 
              INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 2563 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``facilities'' and 
        inserting ``facilities or operations'';
            (2) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``working-
                capital funded industrial facility'' and inserting 
                ``working-capital funded industrial facility or 
                industrial operation''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``a working-
                capital funded Army industrial facility'' and inserting 
                ``a working-capital funded Army industrial facility or 
                an Army industrial operation'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``Facilities'' and 
                inserting ``Facilities or Operations''; and
                    (B) by striking ``facilities'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``facilities or operations'';
            (4) in subsection (c), by striking ``facility'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``facilities or operation''; and
            (5) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as 
                paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(2) The term `industrial operation' means a working-
        capital funded organization, a depot repair organization, or a 
        product support activity supporting these organizations.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of chapter 152 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking the item relating to section 2563 and inserting the following 
new item:

``2563. Articles and services of industrial facilities or operations: 
                            sale to persons outside the Department of 
                            Defense.''.

SEC. 323. LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SERVICES FOR WEAPON SYSTEMS 
              CONTRACTORS.

    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may make available 
logistics support and logistics services to a contractor, including 
contractors of F-35 participant nations, in support of the performance 
by the contractor of a contract for the construction, modification, or 
maintenance or repair of the F-35 Lightning II weapon system.
    (b) Support Contracts.--
            (1) In general.--Any logistics support and logistics 
        services to be provided under this section to a contractor in 
        support of the performance of a contract described in 
        subsection (a) shall be provided under a separate contract that 
        is entered into by the Director of the Defense Logistics Agency 
        with that contractor. The requirements of section 2208(h) of 
        title 10, United States Code, and the regulations prescribed 
        pursuant to such section shall apply to the contract between 
        the Director of the Defense Logistics Agency and the 
        contractor.
            (2) Limitation.--The number of contracts described in 
        subsection (a) for which the Secretary of Defense makes 
        logistics support and logistics services available under the 
        authority of this section may not exceed 10 contracts. No 
        contract entered into by the Director of the Defense Logistics 
        Agency under subsection (b) may be for a period in excess of 
        five years, including periods for which the contract is 
        extended under options to extend the contract.
    (c) Scope of Support and Services.--The logistics support and 
logistics services that may be provided under this section in support 
of the performance of a contract described in subsection (a) are the 
cataloging, storage and distribution, disposal, and supply chain 
management, including supply and provisioning, of materiel and parts 
necessary for the performance of that contract.
    (d) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe regulations 
implementing this section. The regulations shall include the following:
            (1) A requirement that the solicitation of offers for a 
        contract described in subsection (a) that will be awarded by a 
        military department or the Department of Defense, for which 
        logistics support and logistics services are to be made 
        available under this section, shall include--
                    (A) a statement that the logistics support and 
                logistics services are to be made available under the 
                authority of this section to any contractor awarded the 
                contract, but only on a basis that does not require 
                acceptance of the support and services; and
                    (B) a description of the range of the logistics 
                support and logistics services that are to be made 
                available to the contractor.
            (2) A requirement for the rates charged a contractor for 
        logistics support and logistics services provided to a 
        contractor under the authority of this section to reflect the 
        full cost to the United States of the resources used in 
        providing the support and services, including the costs of 
        resources used, but not paid for, by the Department of Defense.
            (3) A prohibition on the imposition of any charge on a 
        contractor for any effort of the contractor to correct a 
        deficiency in the performance of logistics support and 
        logistics services provided to the contractor under this 
        section.
            (4) A requirement that logistics support and logistics 
        services provided under the authority of this section may not 
        interfere with the mission of the Defense Logistics Agency or 
        of any military department involved with the program.
    (e) Relationship to Treaty Obligations.--The Secretary shall 
consult with the Secretary of State to ensure that the exercise of 
authority under the authority of this section does not conflict with 
any obligation of the United States under any treaty or other 
international agreement.
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Secretary of defense.--Not later than the end of the 
        fourth year of operation of the authority under this section, 
        the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report describing--
                    (A) the cost effectiveness for both the Government 
                and industry of operation of the authority; and
                    (B) the effects, if any, on the performance of 
                prime contracts being supported by support contracts 
                awarded under the authority of this section.
            (2) Comptroller general.--Not later than the end of the 
        fifth year of operation of the authority under this section, 
        the Comptroller General of the United States shall review the 
        report of the Secretary under paragraph (1) for sufficiency and 
        provide such recommendations in a report to the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
        as the Comptroller General considers appropriate.
    (g) Sunset.--The authority to enter into contracts under the 
authority of this section shall expire six years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act. Any contracts entered into before such date 
shall continue in effect according to their terms.
    (h) F-35 Participant Nations Defined.--In this section, the term 
``F-35 participant nations'' means each of the following:
            (1) The United States.
            (2) The United Kingdom.
            (3) Italy.
            (4) The Netherlands.
            (5) The Republic of Turkey.
            (6) Canada.
            (7) Australia.
            (8) Denmark.
            (9) Norway.
            (10) Any additional nations given participant nation status 
        by the Secretary of Defense with the concurrence of the 
        Secretary of State.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 331. UPDATING AND MODERNIZING THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EXPLOSIVES 
              SAFETY BOARD.

    (a) In General.--Section 172 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 172. Explosives safety board
    ``(a) Explosives Safety Risk Management.--The Secretary of Defense, 
acting through a joint board composed of members as described in 
subsection (b), shall develop guidance for oversight of the explosives 
safety munitions risk management life-cycle of the production, storage, 
and transportation of supplies of military munitions for use of the 
organizations listed in section 111(b) of this title, with particular 
regard to keeping those supplies properly dispersed and stored and to 
preventing hazardous conditions from arising to endanger life and 
property inside or outside of storage reservations.
    ``(b) Composition of Board.--The joint board referred to in 
subsection (a) shall include members selected by the Secretaries of the 
military departments and be composed of military officers, civilian 
officers and employees of the Department of Defense, or both. The joint 
board may, under agreement with the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
include a member from the Coast Guard, when the Coast Guard is not 
operating as a service in the Department of the Navy.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of chapter 7 of such title is amended by striking the item 
relating to section 172 and inserting the following new item:

``172. Explosives safety board.''.

SEC. 332. OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO COMMAND ARMY DENTAL UNITS.

    Section 3081(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``Dental Corps Officer'' and inserting ``Army Medical 
Department Officer''.

SEC. 333. EXPANDED TRANSFER AND ADOPTION OF MILITARY ANIMALS.

    Section 2583 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting 
                ``Transfer or'' before ``Adoption''; and
                    (B) by striking ``adoption'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``transfer or adoption'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting 
                ``Transfer or'' before ``Adoption'';
                    (B) in the first sentence, by striking ``adoption'' 
                and inserting ``transfer or adoption''; and
                    (C) in the second sentence, by striking 
                ``adoptability'' and inserting ``transferability or 
                adoptability'';
            (3) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                inserting ``transfer or'' before ``adoption'';
                    (B) in subparagraphs (A) and (B), by inserting 
                ``adoption'' before ``by'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or 
                organizations'' after ``persons''; and
                    (D) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``by'' and 
                inserting ``transfer to'';
            (4) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``or 
                Adopted'' after ``Transferred'';
                    (B) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking 
                ``transferred'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``transferred or adopted''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``transfer'' each 
                place it appears and inserting ``transfer or 
                adoption'';
            (5) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                ``Transfer of Retired'' and inserting ``Transportation 
                of Retiring''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``transfer'' and 
                inserting ``transport'';
            (6) in subsection (g)(3), by striking ``adoption of 
        military working dogs'' and all that follows through the period 
        at the end and inserting ``transfer of military working dogs to 
        law enforcement agencies before the end of the dogs' useful 
        working lives.''; and
            (7) in subsection (h)(2), by striking ``A horse'' and 
        inserting ``An equid (horse, mule, or donkey)''.

SEC. 334. REPEAL OF STATUTORY REQUIREMENT FOR COMMANDER OF THE DEFENSE 
              LOGISTICS AGENCY TO BE NOTIFIED THREE YEARS PRIOR TO 
              IMPLEMENTING CHANGES TO ANY UNIFORM OR UNIFORM COMPONENT.

    Section 356 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1636) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a);
            (2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (a) and (b), respectively; and
            (3) in subsections (a) and (b), as so redesignated, by 
        striking ``Commander'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``Director''.

SEC. 335. TRANSITION FROM SERVICE-SPECIFIC DEFENSE READINESS REPORTING 
              SYSTEMS.

    Section 358(c) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended by striking 
``October 1, 2019'' and inserting ``October 1, 2020''.

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.

    The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel 
as of September 30, 2020, as follows:
            (1) The Army, 480,000.
            (2) The Navy, 340,500.
            (3) The Marine Corps, 186,200.
            (4) The Air Force, 332,800.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE.

    (a) In General.--The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for 
Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 
30, 2020, as follows:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 336,000.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 189,500.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 59,000.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 38,500.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 107,700.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 70,100.
            (7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
    (b) End Strength Reductions.--The end strengths prescribed by 
subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall 
be proportionately reduced by--
            (1) the total authorized strength of units organized to 
        serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which 
        are on active duty (other than for training) at the end of the 
        fiscal year; and
            (2) the total number of individual members not in units 
        organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such 
        component who are on active duty (other than for training or 
        for unsatisfactory participation in training) without their 
        consent at the end of the fiscal year.
    (c) End Strength Increases.--Whenever units or individual members 
of the Selected Reserve for any reserve component are released from 
active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for 
such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component 
shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of 
such units and by the total number of such individual members.

SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN SUPPORT OF THE 
              RESERVES.

    Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 
2020, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time 
active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National 
Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, 
instructing, or training the reserve components:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,595.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 16,511.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 10,155.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,386.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 22,637.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 4,431.

SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS).

    The minimum number of military technicians (dual status) as of the 
last day of fiscal year 2020 for the reserve components of the Army and 
the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 of title 10, United States 
Code) shall be the following:
            (1) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 
        22,294.
            (2) For the Army Reserve, 6,492.
            (3) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 
        13,573.
            (4) For the Air Force Reserve, 8,848.

SEC. 414. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO BE ON 
              ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.

    During fiscal year 2020, the maximum number of members of the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time 
on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is the following:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.

SEC. 415. AUTHORIZED STRENGTHS FOR MARINE CORPS RESERVES ON ACTIVE 
              DUTY.

    (a) Officers.--Section 12011(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by striking those parts of the table pertaining to the 
Marine Corps Reserve and inserting the following:


 
     ``Marine Corps Reserve:
 
                                         Major   Lieutenant      Colonel
                                                    Colonel
2,400............................          143          105           34
2,500............................          149          109           35
2,600............................          155          113           36
2,700............................          161          118           37
2,800............................          167          122           39
2,900............................          173          126           41
3,000............................          179          130        42''.
 

    (b) Senior Enlisted Members.--Section 12012(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking those parts of the table pertaining 
to the Marine Corps Reserve and inserting the following:


 
            ``Marine Corps Reserve:
 
                                                        E-8          E-9
2,400.........................................          106           24
2,500.........................................          112           25
2,600.........................................          116           26
2,700.........................................          121           27
2,800.........................................          125           28
2,900.........................................          130           29
3,000.........................................          134        30''.
 

SEC. 416. AUTHORIZED STRENGTH: EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN RESERVE COMPONENT 
              GENERAL AND FLAG OFFICERS ON ACTIVE DUTY.

     Section 526a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(3) Certain reserve component general and flag officers 
        on active duty.--(A) The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
        may designate up to 15 general and flag officer positions in 
        the unified and specified combatant commands, and up to three 
        general and flag officer positions on the Joint Staff, as 
        positions to be held only by reserve component officers who are 
        in a general or flag officer grade below lieutenant general or 
        vice admiral. Each position so designated shall be considered 
        to be a joint duty assignment position for purposes of chapter 
        38 of this title.
            ``(B) A reserve component officer serving in a position 
        designated under subparagraph (A) while on active duty under a 
        call or order to active duty that does not specify a period of 
        180 days or less shall not be counted for purposes of the 
        limitations under subsection (a) and under section 525 of this 
        title.'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (c) through (h) as 
        subsections (d) through (i), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c) Exclusion of Certain Reserve Officers.--
            ``(1) General or flag officers serving less than 180 
        days.--The limitations of this section do not apply to a 
        reserve component general or flag officer who is on active duty 
        for training or who is on active duty under a call or order 
        specifying a period of less than 180 days.
            ``(2) General or flag officers serving 365 days or less.--
        The limitations of this section also do not apply to a number, 
        as specified by the Secretary of the military department 
        concerned, of reserve component general or flag officers 
        authorized to serve on active duty for a period of not more 
        than 365 days. The number so specified for an armed force may 
        not exceed the number equal to 10 percent of the authorized 
        number of general or flag officers, as the case may be, of that 
        armed force under section 12004 of this title. In determining 
        such number, any fraction shall be rounded down to the next 
        whole number, except that such number shall be at least one.
            ``(3) General or flag officers serving more than 365 
        days.--The limitations of this section do not apply to a 
        reserve component general or flag officer who is on active duty 
        for a period in excess of 365 days but not to exceed three 
        years, except that the number of such officers from each 
        reserve component who are covered by this paragraph and not 
        serving in a position that is a joint duty assignment for 
        purposes of chapter 38 of this title may not exceed 5 per 
        component, unless authorized by the Secretary of Defense.''.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

    There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for military 
personnel for fiscal year 2020 a total of $143,476,503,000.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 431. AUTHORITIES OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AND SERVICE SECRETARIES 
              TO VARY PERSONNEL END STRENGTHS.

    (a) Authority for Secretary of Defense Variances.--Section 
115(f)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``increase'' and inserting ``vary''.
    (b) Authority for Service Secretary Variances.--Section 115(g) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by striking ``increase'' and inserting 
                        ``vary''; and
                            (ii) by striking the period at the end and 
                        inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) vary the end strength authorized pursuant to 
                subsection (a)(1)(B) for a fiscal year for the Active 
                Guard and Reserve category of the Selected Reserve of 
                the reserve component of the armed force under the 
                jurisdiction of that Secretary or, in the case of the 
                Secretary of the Navy, for the Active Guard and Reserve 
                category of the Selected Reserve of the reserve 
                component of any armed force under the jurisdiction of 
                that Secretary, by a number equal to not more than 1 
                percent of such authorized end strength.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in the second sentence, by striking 
                ``increase'' each place it occurs and inserting 
                ``variance''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                sentence: ``Any variance under paragraph (1)(C) of the 
                end strength for the Active Guard and Reserve category 
                of the Selected Reserve of an armed force for a fiscal 
                year shall be counted as part of the variance for that 
                Selected Reserve for that fiscal year authorized under 
                subsection (f)(2).''.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

SEC. 501. REVISION TO MANAGEMENT POLICIES FOR JOINT QUALIFIED OFFICERS.

    Section 661(d)(3)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended in 
the third sentence by inserting ``or a designee of the Chairman who is 
a member of the Armed Forces in grade O-8 or higher'' before the 
period.

SEC. 502. REPEAL OF REPORT ON END-OF-QUARTER STRENGTH LEVELS.

    Section 115(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking paragraph (3).

SEC. 503. ORIGINAL APPOINTMENT AUTHORITY.

    Section 531 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``and captain'' and inserting 
                ``captain, major, and lieutenant colonel''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and lieutenant'' and inserting 
                ``lieutenant, lieutenant commander, and commander''; 
                and
            (2) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``grades'' both places it appears 
                and inserting ``grade'';
                    (B) by striking ``major, lieutenant colonel, and''; 
                and
                    (C) by striking ``lieutenant commander, commander, 
                and''.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

SEC. 511. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR REVIEW OF CERTAIN ARMY RESERVE 
              OFFICER UNIT VACANCY PROMOTIONS BY COMMANDERS OF 
              ASSOCIATED ACTIVE DUTY UNITS.

    Section 1113 of the Army National Guard Combat Readiness Reform Act 
of 1992 (10 U.S.C. 10105 note) is repealed.

Subtitle C--General Service Authorities and Correction Military Records

SEC. 521. REDUCTION IN REQUIRED NUMBER OF MEMBERS OF DISCHARGE REVIEW 
              BOARDS.

    Section 1553(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``five'' and inserting ``not less than three''.

SEC. 522. PRIVACY ACT EXCLUSION FOR COURTS-MARTIAL TO ALLOW FOR PUBLIC 
              ACCESS TO DOCKETS, FILINGS, AND COURT RECORDS.

    (a) In General.--Section 940a of title 10, United States Code 
(article 140a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense'' and inserting 
        ``(a) The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security,'';
            (2) in subsection (a) (as designated by paragraph (1) of 
        this section) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
        inserting ``(including with respect to the Coast Guard)'' after 
        ``military justice system'';
            (3) in paragraph (4) of subsection (a) (as so designated), 
        by inserting ``public'' before ``access to docket 
        information''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(b) Section 552a of title 5 shall not apply to records of trial 
produced or distributed within the military justice system or docket 
information, filings, and records made publicly accessible in 
accordance with the uniform standards and criteria for conduct 
established by the Secretary under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to provide public 
access to docket information, filings, or records that are classified, 
subject to a judicial protective order, or ordered sealed.''.
    (b) Existing Standards and Criteria.--The Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall apply to the Coast Guard the standards and criteria for 
conduct established by the Secretary of Defense under section 940a of 
title 10, United States Code (article 140a of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act 
until such time as the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, prescribes revised standards and 
criteria for conduct under such section that implement the amendments 
made by subsection (a) of this section.

                      Subtitle D--Military Justice

SEC. 531. REVISIONS TO REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              POLICY ON EVIDENCE RETENTION TO REFLECT THE LENGTH OF 
              TIME A SEXUAL ASSAULT FORENSIC EXAMINATION (SAFE) KIT 
              MUST BE RETAINED.

    Section 586 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e);
            (2) in subsection (e), as so redesignated, in the 
        subsection heading, by inserting ``in Unrestricted Reporting 
        Cases'' after ``Proceedings''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Return of Personal Property in Restricted Reporting Cases.--
(1) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe procedures under which a 
victim who files a restricted report on an incident of sexual assault 
may request, at any time, the return of any personal property of the 
victim obtained as part of the sexual assault forensic examination.
    ``(2) The procedures shall ensure that--
            ``(A) a request of a victim under paragraph (1) may be made 
        on a confidential basis and without affecting the restricted 
        nature of the restricted report; and
            ``(B) at the time of the filing of the restricted report, a 
        Sexual Assault Response Coordinator or Sexual Assault 
        Prevention and Response Victim Advocate--
                    ``(i) informs the victim that the victim may 
                request the return of personal property as described in 
                paragraph (1); and
                    ``(ii) advises the victim that such a request for 
                the return of personal property may negatively impact a 
                subsequent case adjudication, if the victim later 
                decides to convert the restricted report to an 
                unrestricted report.
    ``(3) Except with respect to personal property returned to a victim 
under this subsection, nothing in this subsection shall affect the 
requirement to retain a sexual assault forensic examination (SAFE) kit 
for the period specified in subsection (c)(4)(A).''.

SEC. 532. COMMAND INFLUENCE UNDER THE UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE.

    (a) Article 37.--Section 837 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 37 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``Unlawfully influencing 
        action of court'' and inserting ``Command influence'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``(a) No authority convening a 
                general, special, or summary court-martial'' and 
                inserting ``(a)(1) No court-martial convening 
                authority'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1) (as designated by subparagraph 
                (A) of this paragraph), by striking ``proceeding. No 
                person'' and inserting the following: ``proceeding.
    ``(3) No person'';
                    (C) by inserting before paragraph (3) (as 
                designated by subparagraph (B) of this paragraph) the 
                following new paragraph:
    ``(2) No court-martial convening authority, nor any other 
commanding officer, may deter or attempt to deter a potential witness 
from participating in the investigatory process or testifying at a 
court-martial. The denial of a request to travel at government expense 
or refusal to make a witness available shall not by itself constitute 
unlawful command influence.'';
                    (D) in paragraph (3) (as so designated)--
                            (i) by inserting ``attempt to'' before 
                        ``influence'';
                            (ii) by striking ``with respect to his 
                        judicial acts'' and inserting ``or preliminary 
                        hearing officer with respect to such acts taken 
                        pursuant to this chapter as prescribed by the 
                        President''; and
                            (iii) by striking the second sentence; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
    ``(4) Paragraphs (1) through (3) shall not apply with respect to--
            ``(A) general instructional or informational courses in 
        military justice if such courses are designed solely for the 
        purpose of instructing members of a command in the substantive 
        and procedural aspects of courts-martial;
            ``(B) statements regarding criminal activity or a 
        particular criminal offense that do not advocate a particular 
        disposition, or a particular court-martial finding, or 
        sentence; or
            ``(C) statements and instructions given in open court by 
        the military judge or counsel.
    ``(5)(A) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) through (3), but subject to 
subparagraph (B)--
            ``(i) a superior convening authority or officer may 
        generally discuss matters to consider regarding the disposition 
        of alleged violations of this chapter with a subordinate 
        convening authority or officer; and
            ``(ii) a subordinate convening authority or officer may 
        seek advice from a superior convening authority or officer 
        regarding the disposition of an alleged offense under this 
        chapter.
    ``(B) No superior convening authority or officer may direct a 
subordinate convening authority or officer to make a particular 
disposition in a specific case or otherwise substitute the discretion 
of such authority or such officer for that of the subordinate convening 
authority or officer.'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``to be advanced, in grade'' and 
                inserting ``to be advanced in grade''; and
                    (B) by striking ``accused before a court-martial'' 
                and inserting ``person in a court-martial proceeding''; 
                and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(c) No finding or sentence of a court-martial may be held 
incorrect on the ground of a violation of this section, or the doctrine 
of apparent unlawful command influence, unless the violation materially 
prejudices the substantial rights of the accused.
    ``(d)(1) A superior convening authority or commanding officer may 
withhold the authority of a subordinate convening authority or officer 
to dispose of offenses in individual cases, types of cases, or 
generally.
    ``(2) Except as otherwise authorized by this chapter, a superior 
convening authority or commanding officer may not limit the discretion 
of a subordinate convening authority or officer to act with respect to 
a case for which the subordinate convening authority or officer has 
authority to dispose of the offenses.''.
    (b) Article 53a.--Section 853a(b)(5) of title 10, United States 
Code (article 53a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended 
by striking ``the President'' and inserting ``the President, the 
Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary concerned.''.
    (c) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of subchapter VII of chapter 47 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 837 (article 
37 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) and inserting the following 
new item:

``837. Art. 37. Command influence.''.

   Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Resilience, and Transition

SEC. 541. ENHANCING JOINT PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION.

    Section 2154(a)(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``the Joint Forces Staff College or a'' and inserting ``a 
joint or''.

SEC. 542. ELIGIBILITY OF ADDITIONAL ENLISTED MEMBERS FOR ASSOCIATE 
              DEGREE PROGRAMS OF THE COMMUNITY COLLEGE OF THE AIR 
              FORCE.

    Section 9415(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Enlisted members of the armed forces other than the 
        Air Force who are participating in Community College of the Air 
        Force affiliated joint-service training and education 
        courses.''.

SEC. 543. DEGREE GRANTING AUTHORITY FOR UNITED STATES ARMY ARMAMENT 
              GRADUATE SCHOOL.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 401 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 4322. Degree granting authority for United States Army Armament 
              Graduate School
    ``(a) Authority.--Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
the Army, the Chancellor of the United States Army Armament Graduate 
School may, upon the recommendation of the faculty and provost of the 
college, confer appropriate degrees upon graduates who meet the degree 
requirements.
    ``(b) Limitation.--A degree may not be conferred under this section 
unless--
            ``(1) the Secretary of Education has recommended approval 
        of the degree in accordance with the Federal Policy Governing 
        Granting of Academic Degrees by Federal Agencies; and
            ``(2) the United States Army Armament Graduate School is 
        accredited by the appropriate civilian academic accrediting 
        agency or organization to award the degree, as determined by 
        the Secretary of Education.
    ``(c) Congressional Notification Requirements.--(1) When seeking to 
establish degree granting authority under this section, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives--
            ``(A) a copy of the self-assessment questionnaire required 
        by the Federal Policy Governing Granting of Academic Degrees by 
        Federal Agencies, at the time the assessment is submitted to 
        the Department of Education's National Advisory Committee on 
        Institutional Quality and Integrity; and
            ``(B) the subsequent recommendations and rationale of the 
        Secretary of Education regarding the establishment of the 
        degree granting authority.
    ``(2) Upon any modification or redesignation of existing degree 
granting authority, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report containing the rationale for the proposed 
modification or redesignation and any subsequent recommendation of the 
Secretary of Education on the proposed modification or redesignation.
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
containing an explanation of any action by the appropriate academic 
accrediting agency or organization not to accredit the United States 
Army Armament Graduate School to award any new or existing degree.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``4322. Degree granting authority for United States Army Armament 
                            Graduate School.''.

SEC. 544. AUTHORITY FOR THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS' ACCREDITED 
              INSTITUTIONS TO ACCEPT RESEARCH GRANTS.

    (a) Army Institutions.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7487 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the 
                following new subsection:
    ``(a) Acceptance of Research Grants.--(1) The Secretary of the Army 
may authorize the Commandant of the United States Army War College or 
the head of any other accredited institution of the Army to accept 
qualifying research grants. Any such grant may only be accepted if the 
work under the grant is to be carried out by a professor or instructor 
of the College or institution, as appropriate, for a scientific, 
literary, or educational purpose.
    ``(2) A civilian member of the faculty of the Army War College or 
any other accredited institution of the Army may accept a grant to 
conduct research in the civilian faculty member's personal capacity, 
but such research may not be accomplished in direct support of 
lectures, instruction, curriculum development, or special duties as 
assigned at the College or institution, as appropriate. For the purpose 
of determining rights with respect to any invention made under such a 
grant, the civilian faculty member shall be deemed a Government 
employee.'';
                    (B) in the second sentence of subsection (d), by 
                inserting ``or the head of any other accredited 
                institution of the Army, as appropriate,'' after ``The 
                Commandant''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e), by striking ``Army War 
                College'' and all that follows through the period and 
                inserting ``Army War College or any other accredited 
                institution of the Army may be used to pay expenses 
                incurred by the College or institution, as appropriate, 
                in applying for, and otherwise pursuing, the award of 
                qualifying research grants.''.
            (2) Clerical amendments.--
                    (A) Section heading.--The heading of such section 
                is amended by inserting ``and other accredited 
                institutions of the Army'' after ``United States Army 
                War College''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 757 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 7487 and 
                inserting the following new item:

``7487. United States Army War College and other accredited 
                            institutions of the Army: acceptance of 
                            grants for faculty research for scientific, 
                            literary, and educational purposes.''.
    (b) Navy Institutions.--
            (1) In general.--Section 8593 of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the 
                following new subsection:
    ``(a) Acceptance of Research Grants.--(1) The Secretary of the Navy 
may authorize the President of the Naval War College or the head of any 
other accredited institution of the Navy to accept qualifying research 
grants. Any such grant may only be accepted if the work under the grant 
is to be carried out by a professor or instructor of the College or 
institution, as appropriate, for a scientific, literary, or educational 
purpose.
    ``(2) A civilian member of the faculty of the Naval War College or 
any other accredited institution of the Navy may accept a grant to 
conduct research in the civilian faculty member's personal capacity, 
but such research may not be accomplished in direct support of 
lectures, instruction, curriculum development, or special duties as 
assigned at the College or institution, as appropriate. For the purpose 
of determining rights with respect to any invention made under such a 
grant, the civilian faculty member shall be deemed a Government 
employee.'';
                    (B) in the second sentence of subsection (d), by 
                inserting ``or the head of any other accredited 
                institution of the Navy, as appropriate,'' after 
                ``Naval War College''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e), by striking ``Naval War 
                College'' and all that follows through the period and 
                inserting ``Naval War College or any other accredited 
                institution of the Navy may be used to pay expenses 
                incurred by the College or institution, as appropriate, 
                in applying for, and otherwise pursuing, the award of 
                qualifying research grants.''.
            (2) Clerical amendments.--
                    (A) Section heading.--The heading of such section 
                is amended by inserting ``and other accredited 
                institutions of the Navy'' after ``Naval War College''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 859 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 8593 and 
                inserting the following new item:

``8593. Naval War College and other accredited institutions of the 
                            Navy: acceptance of grants for faculty 
                            research for scientific, literary, and 
                            educational purposes.''.
    (c) Marine Corps Institutions.--
            (1) In general.--Section 8594 of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the 
                following new subsection:
    ``(a) Acceptance of Research Grants.--(1) The Secretary of the Navy 
may authorize the President of the Marine Corps University or the head 
of any other accredited institution of the Marine Corps to accept 
qualifying research grants. Any such grant may only be accepted if the 
work under the grant is to be carried out by a professor or instructor 
of the University or institution, as appropriate, for a scientific, 
literary, or educational purpose.
    ``(2) A civilian member of the faculty of the Marine Corps 
University or any other accredited institution of the Marine Corps may 
accept a grant to conduct research in the civilian faculty member's 
personal capacity, but such research may not be accomplished in direct 
support of lectures, instruction, curriculum development, or special 
duties as assigned at the University or institution, as appropriate. 
For the purpose of determining rights with respect to any invention 
made under such a grant, the civilian faculty member shall be deemed a 
Government employee.'';
                    (B) in the second sentence of subsection (d), by 
                inserting ``or the head of any other accredited 
                institution of the Marine Corps, as appropriate,'' 
                after ``Marine Corps University''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e), by striking ``Marine Corps 
                University'' and all that follows through the period 
                and inserting ``Marine Corps University or any other 
                accredited institution of the Marine Corps may be used 
                to pay expenses incurred by the University or 
                institution, as appropriate, in applying for, and 
                otherwise pursuing, the award of qualifying research 
                grants.''.
            (2) Clerical amendments.--
                    (A) Section heading.--The heading of such section 
                is amended by inserting ``and other accredited 
                institutions of the Marine Corps'' after ``Marine Corps 
                University''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 859 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 8594 and 
                inserting the following:

``8594. Marine Corps University and other accredited institutions of 
                            the Marine Corps: acceptance of grants for 
                            faculty research for scientific, literary, 
                            and educational purposes.''.
    (d) Air Force Institutions.--
            (1) In general.--Section 9487 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the 
                following:
    ``(a) Acceptance of Research Grants.--(1) The Secretary of the Air 
Force may authorize the Commandant of the Air War College or the head 
of any other accredited institution of the Air Force to accept 
qualifying research grants. Any such grant may only be accepted if the 
work under the grant is to be carried out by a professor or instructor 
of the College or institution, as appropriate, for a scientific, 
literary, or educational purpose.
    ``(2) A civilian member of the faculty of the Air War College or 
any other accredited institution of the Air Force may accept a grant to 
conduct research in the civilian faculty member's personal capacity, 
but such research may not be accomplished in direct support of 
lectures, instruction, curriculum development, or special duties as 
assigned at the College or institution, as appropriate. For the purpose 
of determining rights with respect to any invention made under such a 
grant, the civilian faculty member shall be deemed a Government 
employee.'';
                    (B) in subsection (d), by inserting ``or the head 
                of any other accredited institution of the Air Force, 
                as appropriate,'' after ``Commandant''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e), by striking ``Air War 
                College'' and all that follows through the period and 
                inserting ``Air War College or any other accredited 
                institution of the Air Force may be used to pay 
                expenses incurred by the College or institution, as 
                appropriate, in applying for, and otherwise pursuing, 
                the award of qualifying research grants.''.
            (2) Clerical amendments.--
                    (A) Section heading.--The heading of such section 
                is amended by inserting ``and other accredited 
                institutions of the Air Force'' after ``Air War 
                College''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 957 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 9487 and 
                inserting the following new item:

``9487. Air War College and other accredited institutions of the Air 
                            Force: acceptance of grants for faculty 
                            research for scientific, literary, and 
                            educational purposes.''.

SEC. 545. PREPARATION OF BUDGET REQUESTS FOR OPERATION OF PROFESSIONAL 
              MILITARY EDUCATION SCHOOLS.

    Section 2162(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended in 
the first sentence by striking ``as a separate budget request'' and 
inserting ``as part of the budget request for the Joint Staff''.

                   Subtitle F--Decorations and Awards

SEC. 551. EXPANSION OF GOLD STAR LAPEL BUTTON ELIGIBILITY TO 
              STEPBROTHERS AND STEPSISTERS.

    Section 1126 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``and next of kin'' and 
        inserting ``, next of kin, stepbrother, and stepsister'';
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``may be replaced'' and 
        all that follows before the period at the end and inserting 
        ``may be replaced upon application and without cost''; and
            (3) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) The terms `stepbrother' and `stepsister' shall be 
        defined in regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense 
        under subsection (b).''.

SEC. 552. AUTHORITY TO AWARD OR PRESENT A DECORATION FOLLOWING A 
              CONGRESSIONALLY REQUESTED REVIEW.

    (a) In General.--Section 1130 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``and award or 
        presentation'' after ``for review'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``shall'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``may'';
            (3) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d)(1) A decoration may be awarded or presented following 
submission of a favorable recommendation for the award or presentation 
under subsection (b).
    ``(2) An award or presentation under paragraph (1) may not occur 
before the expiration of a 60-day period for congressional review 
beginning on the date of submission of the favorable recommendation 
under subsection (b) regarding the award or presentation.
    ``(3) The authority to make an award or presentation under this 
subsection shall apply notwithstanding any limitation described in 
subsection (a).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 57 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 1130 and inserting the following:

``1130. Consideration of proposals for decorations not previously 
                            submitted in timely fashion: procedures for 
                            review and award or presentation.''.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 561. EXPANSION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY TAX RELIEF FOR SERVICEMEMBERS.

    Paragraph (1) of section 511(d) of the Servicemembers Civil Relief 
Act (50 U.S.C. 4001(d)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``, whether leased or owned,'' after 
        ``spouse of a servicemember''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following: ``The relief from 
        personal property taxes extends to a servicemember or the 
        spouse of a servicemember who leases a motor vehicle, as well 
        as to a lessor who leases a motor vehicle to the servicemember 
        or spouse. When a servicemember or the spouse of the 
        servicemember leases a motor vehicle, the leased motor vehicle 
        shall not be deemed to be located or present in, or have a 
        situs for taxation in, the tax jurisdiction in which the 
        servicemember is serving in compliance with military orders 
        unless the servicemember or spouse has adopted that tax 
        jurisdiction as the legal residence of the servicemember or 
        spouse, respectively.''.

SEC. 562. CLARIFICATION REGARDING MILITARY ORDERS REQUIRED FOR 
              TERMINATION OF LEASES PURSUANT TO THE SERVICEMEMBERS 
              CIVIL RELIEF ACT.

    Section 305(i) of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 
3955) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``including orders for 
        separation or retirement,'' after ``official military 
        orders,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Permanent change of station.--The term `permanent 
        change of station' includes separation or retirement from 
        military service.''.

SEC. 563. CLARIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENCE AND DOMICILE TAX 
              RELIEF UNDER THE SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RELIEF ACT.

    (a) In General.--Section 511 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act 
(50 U.S.C. 4001) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(h) Determination of Servicemember's Tax Jurisdiction.--For 
purposes of this section, the State or political subdivision where a 
servicemember is serving in compliance with military orders includes 
any State or political subdivision within 150 miles of the 
servicemember's assigned duty location.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to a State or local income tax return filed for any 
taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2016.

SEC. 564. DETERMINATION OF RESIDENCE OR DOMICILE FOR TAX PURPOSES OF 
              SPOUSES OF MILITARY PERSONNEL.

    Section 511(a)(2) of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 
4001(a)(2)) is amended by striking ``if the residence or domicile, as 
the case may be, is the same for the servicemember and the spouse''.

SEC. 565. EXTENSION OF PROTECTIONS FOR SERVICEMEMBERS AGAINST DEFAULT 
              JUDGMENTS.

    (a) Clarification of Affidavit Requirement.--Paragraph (1) of 
section 201(b) of the Servicemember Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 
3931(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses 
        (i) and (ii), respectively;
            (2) in the matter preceding clause (i), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``the court, before entering 
                judgment for the plaintiff, shall require the plaintiff 
                to'' and inserting ``the plaintiff, when seeking a 
                default judgment, shall''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``(A)'' before ``In any action''; 
                and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(B) The affidavit shall set forth all steps taken to 
        determine the defendant's military status and shall have 
        attached the records on which the plaintiff relies in preparing 
        the affidavit. Attached records shall include at least a copy 
        of the certificate produced by the Department of Defense 
        Manpower Data Center or a certificate produced by a successor 
        to such Center.''.
    (b) Extension of Protections for Servicemembers Against Default 
Judgments.--Paragraph (2) of section 201(b) of the Servicemembers Civil 
Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 3931(b)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting after the first sentence the following new 
        sentence: ``The court may not appoint an attorney to represent 
        a defendant who is selected by, or has a business affiliation 
        with, the plaintiff, an attorney representing the plaintiff, or 
        an employee of an entity that has a business affiliation with 
        an attorney representing the plaintiff.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
        ``Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prohibit a 
        court from assessing court-appointed attorney fees and costs 
        against the plaintiff.''.
    (c) Searches of Department of Defense Manpower Data Center 
Database.--Subsection (b) of such section is further amended by adding 
at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(5) Required search of department of defense database.--
        Before filing an affidavit under subsection (b)(1), the 
        plaintiff shall conduct a diligent and reasonable investigation 
        to determine whether or not the defendant is in military 
        service, including a search of available Department of Defense 
        Manpower Data Center records or records from a successor to 
        such Center, and of any other information available to the 
        plaintiff. The plaintiff shall obtain and provide to the court 
        copies of any status reports obtained through such search.
            ``(6) Duties of court-appointed attorney.--(A) An attorney 
        appointed to represent a defendant under subsection (b)(2) 
        shall act only in the best interests of the defendant.
            ``(B) The court appointed attorney, when appropriate to 
        represent the best interests of the defendant, shall request a 
        stay of proceedings under this Act.
            ``(C) The plaintiff shall provide to the court appointed 
        attorney all contact information the plaintiff has for the 
        defendant.
            ``(D) The court appointed attorney shall conduct a diligent 
        and reasonable investigation to confirm the defendant's 
        military status, including a search of the Department of 
        Defense Manpower Data Center or a successor to such Center. The 
        attorney shall file any status reports obtained through such 
        search with the court.
            ``(E) Upon making contact with the defendant, the court 
        appointed attorney shall advise the defendant of the nature of 
        the lawsuit and the defendant's rights provided by this Act, 
        including rights to obtain a stay and to request the court to 
        adjust an obligation. The attorney shall communicate to the 
        court whether or not the defendant requests a stay or requests 
        a continuance to obtain counsel.
            ``(F) If the court appointed attorney is unable to make 
        contact with the defendant, the attorney shall assert rights 
        provided by this Act on behalf of the defendant, provided there 
        is an adequate basis in law and fact.
            ``(G) A court appointed attorney unable to make contact 
        with the defendant shall report to the court on all of the 
        attorney's efforts to make contact by filing an affidavit 
        indicating the following:
                    ``(i) The date such attorney reviewed the court 
                record and pleadings to ascertain contact information 
                for the defendant.
                    ``(ii) All of the attorney's attempts to contact 
                the defendant, including the date, time, and method of 
                communication.
                    ``(iii) That such attorney was unable to contact 
                the defendant.
            ``(7) Effect of department of defense discontinuing 
        availability of information.--If the Department of Defense 
        discontinues the availability of active duty status information 
        through the Department of Defense Manpower Data Center, a 
        successor to such Center, or another related entity, then all 
        requirements under this subsection that are related to the 
        Department of Defense Manpower Data Center, the successor to 
        such Center, or the other related entity shall cease to apply 
        until such time as the Department of Defense resumes making 
        such information available.''.

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

SEC. 601. INCLUSION OF ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE FOR A PREPLANNED MISSION AS 
              ELIGIBLE SERVICE FOR REDUCTION OF ELIGIBILITY AGE FOR A 
              NON-REGULAR RETIREMENT.

    Section 12731(f)(2)(B)(i) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting ``or 12304b'' after ``section 12301(d)''.

SEC. 602. AUTHORITY TO WAIVE RECOUPMENT OF SEPARATION PAY, SEVERANCE 
              PAY, OR READJUSTMENT PAY FOR INVOLUNTARY DISCHARGE FOR 
              MEMBERS WHO SUBSEQUENTLY BECOME ENTITLED TO RETIRED OR 
              RETAINER PAY.

    Section 1174(h) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary of Homeland 
Security with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a 
service in the Navy, may waive the requirement to repay separation pay, 
severance pay, or readjustment pay under paragraph (1) if such 
Secretary determines that repayment would be against equity and good 
conscience or would be contrary to the best interests of the United 
States.
    ``(B) The authority of the Secretary of Defense in this paragraph 
may be delegated to the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
Readiness and the Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for 
Personnel and Readiness.''.

SEC. 603. AUTHORITY FOR PAYMENT OF DEATH GRATUITY TO TRUSTS.

    Section 1477(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph--
            ``(3) In this subsection, the term `person' includes--
                    ``(A) the estate of the member; or
                    ``(B) a trust legally established under any 
                Federal, State, or territorial law, including a 
                supplemental or special needs trust established under 
                subparagraph (A) or (C) of section 1917(d)(4) of the 
                Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396p(d)(4)) for the 
                sole benefit of a dependent child considered disabled 
                under section 1614(a)(3) of that Act (42 U.S.C. 
                1382c(a)(3)) who is incapable of self-support because 
                of mental or physical incapacity.''.

SEC. 604. PAYMENT OF TRANSITIONAL COMPENSATION FOR CERTAIN DEPENDENTS.

    Section 1059(m) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``Members or'' 
        after ``Dependents of'';
            (2) by inserting ``member or'' before ``former member'' 
        each place it appears; and
            (3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
    ``(3) For the purposes of this subsection, a member is considered 
separated from active duty upon the earliest of--
            ``(A) the date an administrative separation is initiated by 
        a commander of the member;
            ``(B) the date the court-martial sentence is adjudged if 
        the sentence, as adjudged, includes a dismissal, dishonorable 
        discharge, bad conduct discharge, or forfeiture of all pay and 
        allowances; or
            ``(C) the date the member's term of service expires.''.

SEC. 605. TREATMENT OF COMMISSARY USER FEES.

    Section 2483(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``fees on services provided,'' after ``handling fees for 
tobacco products,''.

SEC. 606. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN EXPIRING BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
              AUTHORITIES.

    (a) Authorities Relating to Reserve Forces.--Section 910(g) of 
title 37, United States Code, relating to income replacement payments 
for reserve component members experiencing extended and frequent 
mobilization for active duty service, is amended by striking ``December 
31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
    (b) Title 10 Authorities Relating to Health Care Professionals.--
The following sections of title 10, United States Code, are amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020'':
            (1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer 
        candidate accession program.
            (2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education 
        loans for certain health professionals who serve in the 
        Selected Reserve.
    (c) Authorities Relating to Nuclear Officers.--Section 333(i) of 
title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
    (d) Authorities Relating to Title 37 Consolidated Special Pay, 
Incentive Pay, and Bonus Authorities.--The following sections of title 
37, United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2020'':
            (1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for 
        enlisted members.
            (2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for 
        officers.
            (3) Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive 
        pay and bonus authorities for officers.
            (4) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive 
        pay authorities for officers in health professions.
            (5) Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for 
        cadets and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve Officers' 
        Training Corps.
            (6) Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
            (7) Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special 
        duty pay.
            (8) Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or 
        proficiency bonus.
            (9) Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for 
        members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to 
        high priority units.
    (e) Authority To Provide Temporary Increase in Rates of Basic 
Allowance for Housing.--Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2020''.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

SEC. 701. REAUTHORIZATION OF DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR HEALTH CARE 
              COVERAGE THROUGH THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 1108 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking the last sentence;
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
                following new paragraph: ``(1) An eligible beneficiary 
                under this subsection is a beneficiary under section 
                1074(a) of this title or a covered beneficiary under 
                this chapter, but does not include a person who is 
                entitled to hospital insurance benefits under part A of 
                title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395c 
                et seq.).'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``who is a family 
                member for purposes of such chapter'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``(except as 
                provided in paragraph (1)(C) or (1)(D))''; and
                    (D) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5);
            (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``In establishing the 
        areas'' and all that follows through the end of the subsection;
            (4) in subsection (d)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``2000'' and inserting ``2021'';
                    (B) by striking ``1999'' and inserting ``2020''; 
                and
                    (C) by striking ``2002'' and inserting ``2023'';
            (5) in subsection (f), by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) 
        and the paragraph designation for paragraph (3);
            (6) by striking subsection (g);
            (7) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections 
        (g) and (h), respectively;
            (8) by striking subsection (j); and
            (9) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(i) Health Allowance.--The Secretary of Defense may make 
additional payments to a beneficiary under section 1074(a) of this 
title as a health allowance for payment of health and medical services 
(including premium and cost sharing) in the demonstration project under 
this section.
    ``(j) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of Defense 
and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management are authorized 
to establish such other terms and conditions for the operation of the 
demonstration authorized by this section as they determine 
appropriate.''.

SEC. 702. REVISION OF AUTHORITY FOR SOLE SOURCE CONTRACTS WITH 
              DESIGNATED PROVIDERS.

    Subtitle C of title VII of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 1997 (Public Law 104-201; 110 Stat. 2586 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 721--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (7) to read as follows:
            ``(7) The term `health care services' means the health care 
        services referred to in section 723(a).''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(10) The term `TRICARE Select program' means the program 
        required by section 1075 of title 10, United States Code.'';
            (2) in section 723, by amending subsections (a) and (b) to 
        read as follows:
    ``(a) Uniform Benefit Required.--A designated provider shall offer 
to enrollees a uniform benefit that--
            ``(1) covers the services covered under the programs 
        authorized by sections 1074g, 1075, and 1086(d) of title 10, 
        United States Code, and parts A and B of the Medicare program; 
        and
            ``(2) does not exceed the accompanying enrollment fee and 
        cost-sharing requirements, except that the benefit may include 
        a special rule for amounts without referrals comparable to that 
        under section 1075a(c) of title 10, United States Code.
    ``(b) Time for Implementation of Benefit.--A designated provider 
shall offer the health benefit option described in subsection (a) to 
enrollees beginning on January 1, 2020.'';
            (3) in section 724, by striking subsection (g); and
            (4) in section 726(b), by striking ``TRICARE program'' and 
        inserting ``TRICARE Select program''.

SEC. 703. FIVE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE THE DOD-VA 
              HEALTH CARE INCENTIVE FUND.

    Section 8111(d)(3) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting, ``September 30, 2025''.

SEC. 704. CLARIFICATION OF OFFICE OF SPECIAL NEEDS POLICY FOR 
              INDIVIDUALIZED SERVICES PLANS.

    Section 1781c(d)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subparagraph (F) and inserting the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) Procedures for the development of an 
                individualized services plan for those military family 
                members with special needs who have requested support 
                and have a completed family needs assessment.''.

SEC. 705. MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM FRAUD AND ABUSE PREVENTION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 1073d the following new section:
``Sec. 1073e. Health care fraud and abuse prevention
    ``(a) Authority.--(1) The Secretary of Defense is authorized to 
conduct a program to prevent and remedy fraud and abuse in health care 
programs of the Department of Defense, including all programs carried 
out under this chapter.
    ``(2) At the discretion of the Secretary, the program may be 
administered jointly by the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense and the Director of the Defense Health Agency.
    ``(b) Civil Monetary Penalties.--(1) The authorities granted to the 
Secretary of Defense and the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense under section 1128A(m) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1320a-7a(m)) shall be available to the Secretary and the Inspector 
General in carrying out the program authorized by subsection (a).
    ``(2) Except to the extent inconsistent with this section, the 
provisions of such section 1128A apply to civil monetary penalties 
under this subsection.
    ``(c) Treatment of Amounts Collected.--(1) Amounts collected under 
subsection (b) shall be credited to appropriations currently available 
at the time of collection for expenses of the affected Department of 
Defense health care program.
    ``(2) Any such amounts may be used to support the administration of 
the program authorized by subsection (a), including support for 
interagency agreements entered into under subsection (d).
    ``(3) The authority provided under this subsection shall be in 
addition to the authority provided under section 1079a of this title.
    ``(d) Interagency Agreements.--The Secretary of Defense is 
authorized to enter into agreements with the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, the Attorney General, and heads of other Federal 
agencies for the effective and efficient implementation of the program 
authorized by subsection (a).
    ``(e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed as limiting any authority of the Inspector General of the 
Department of Defense under any other provision of law.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `fraud and abuse' means any conduct for 
        which a civil monetary penalty may be assessed under subsection 
        (b).
            ``(2) The term `Defense Health Agency' means the 
        organizational entity established by the Secretary of Defense 
        under section 191 of this title for the administration of 
        programs under this chapter.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
1073d the following new item:

``1073e. Health care fraud and abuse prevention.''.

SEC. 706. EXTENSION AND CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR THE JOINT 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
              MEDICAL FACILITY DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.

    Title XVII of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2567) is amended--
            (1) in section 1701(a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Subject to subsection (b), the'' 
                and inserting ``The'';
                    (B) by striking subsection (b); and
                    (C) by redesignating subsections (c) through (f) as 
                subsections (b) through (e), respectively;
            (2) in section 1702(a)(1), by striking ``hereafter in this 
        title'' and inserting ``hereafter in this section'';
            (3) in subsections (a) and (c) of section 1703, by striking 
        ``the facility'' and inserting ``the James A. Lovell Federal 
        Health Care Center'';
            (4) in section 1704--
                    (A) in subsections (a)(3), (a)(4)(A) and (b)(1), by 
                striking ``the facility'' and inserting ``the James A. 
                Lovell Federal Health Care Center''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e), as amended by section 722 of 
                the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public 
                Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3417), section 723 of the 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
                (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 869), section 741 of the 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
                (Public Law 114-328; 129 Stat. 2237), section 719 of 
                the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
                2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1283), and section 
                731 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
                232) by striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting 
                ``September 30, 2023''; and
            (5) in section 1705--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``the facility'' 
                and inserting ``the James A. Lovell Federal Health Care 
                Center (hereafter in this section referred to as the 
                `JALFHCC')'';
                    (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) of 
                subsection (b), by striking ``the facility'' and 
                inserting ``the JALFHCC''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) by striking ``the facility'' each place 
                        it appears and inserting ``the JALFHCC''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        paragraph:
            ``(4) To permit the JALFHCC to enter into personal services 
        contracts to carry out health care responsibilities in the 
        JALFHCC to the same extent and subject to the same conditions 
        and limitations as apply under section 1091 of title 10, United 
        States Code, to the Secretary of Defense in relation to health 
        care responsibilities in medical treatment facilities of the 
        Department of Defense.''.

SEC. 707. STRENGTHENING THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACADEMIC HEALTH 
              SYSTEM IN THE NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 104 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 2113a the following new section:
``Sec. 2113b. Department of Defense Academic Health System
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may establish an 
Academic Health System to integrate the health care, health professions 
education, and health research activities of the Military Health System 
in the National Capital Region.
    ``(b) Leadership.--The Secretary may, under the authority of this 
chapter, appoint employees to leadership positions in the Academic 
Health System. Such positions may include responsibilities for 
management of the health care, health professions education, and health 
research activities of the Military Health System in the National 
Capital Region. Such positions are in addition to similar leadership 
positions for members of the Armed Forces.
    ``(c) Administration.--The Secretary may use other authorities 
under this chapter for the administration of the Academic Health System 
authorized by this section.
    ``(d) National Capital Region Defined.--In this section, the term 
`National Capital Region' means the area, or portion thereof, as 
determined by the Secretary, in the vicinity of Washington, DC.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 104 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2113a the following new item:

``2113b. Department of Defense Academic Health System.''.

SEC. 708. ENDOWMENTS AT THE UNIFORMED SERVICES UNIVERSITY OF THE HEALTH 
              SCIENCES.

    Section 2113(g)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as subparagraph (G); 
        and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(F) to establish endowments, under agreement with 
                the Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of 
                Military Medicine, including with funding from gifts 
                and bequests received under this section or royalties 
                received under chapter 63 of title 15, to carry out 
                medical research, medical consultation, and medical 
                education, with such endowment funds available to the 
                University until expended; and''.

SEC. 709. AUTHORITY TO PLAN, DESIGN, AND CONSTRUCT, OR LEASE, SHARED 
              MEDICAL FACILITIES WITH DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 1104 the following new section:
``Sec. 1104a. Shared medical facilities with Department of Veterans 
              Affairs
    ``(a) Agreements.--The Secretary of Defense may enter into 
agreements with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the planning, 
design, and construction, or the leasing, of facilities to be operated 
as shared medical facilities.
    ``(b) Transfer of Funds by Secretary of Defense.--(1) The Secretary 
of Defense may transfer to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs amounts as 
follows:
            ``(A) Amounts, not in excess of the amount authorized by 
        law for an unspecified minor military construction project, for 
        the construction of a shared medical facility if--
                    ``(i) the amount of the share of the Department of 
                Defense for the estimated cost of the project does not 
                exceed the amount authorized under section 2805(a)(2) 
                of this title; and
                    ``(ii) the other requirements of such section have 
                been met with respect to funds identified for transfer.
            ``(B) Amounts appropriated for the Defense Health Program 
        for the purpose of the planning, design, and construction, or 
        the leasing of space, for a shared medical facility.
    ``(2) The authority to transfer funds under this section is in 
addition to any other authority to transfer funds available to the 
Secretary of Defense.
    ``(3) Section 2215 of this title does not apply to a transfer of 
funds under this subsection.
    ``(c) Transfer of Funds to Secretary of Defense.--(1) Any amount 
transferred under title 38 to the Secretary of Defense by the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs for necessary expenses for the planning, design, 
and construction of a shared medical facility, where the amount of the 
share of the Department of Defense for the cost of such project does 
not exceed the amount specified in section 2805(a)(2) of this title, 
may be credited to accounts of the Department of Defense available for 
the construction of a shared medical facility.
    ``(2) Amounts transferred under title 38 to the Secretary of 
Defense by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the purpose of the 
planning and design, or the leasing of space, for a shared medical 
facility may be credited to accounts of the Department of Defense 
available for such purposes, and may be used for such purposes.
    ``(3) Using accounts credited with transfers from the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense may 
carry out unspecified minor military construction projects, if the 
share of the Department of Defense for the cost of such project does 
not exceed the amount specified in section 2805(a)(2) of this title.
    ``(d) Merger of Amounts Transferred.--Any amount transferred to the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs pursuant to subsection (b), and any 
amount transferred to the Secretary of Defense as described in 
subsection (c), shall be merged with, and be available for the same 
purposes and the same time period as, the appropriation or fund to 
which transferred.
    ``(e) Shared Medical Facility Defined.--In this section, the term 
`shared medical facility' means a building or buildings, or a campus, 
intended to be used by both the Department of Defense and the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for the provision of health-care 
services, whether under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense or 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and whether or not located on a 
military installation or on real property under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Such term includes any necessary 
building and auxiliary structure, garage, parking facility, mechanical 
equipment, abutting sidewalks, and accommodations for attending 
personnel.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
1104 the following new item:

``1104a. Shared medical facilities with Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs.''.

SEC. 710. TRICARE PAYMENT OPTIONS FOR RETIREES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1099 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by amending the section designation and heading to read 
        as follows:
``Sec. 1099. Health care enrollment system and payment options'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(d) Payment Options.--(1) A member or former member of the 
uniformed services, or a dependent thereof, eligible for medical care 
and dental care under section 1074(b) or 1076 of this title shall pay 
premiums charged for the coverage under this chapter.
    ``(2) To the maximum extent practicable, the premiums shall be 
withheld from the retired, retainer, or equivalent pay of the member, 
former member, or dependent. In all other cases, the premiums shall be 
paid in a frequency and method determined by the Secretary.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 1097a of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``; payment 
        options'';
            (2) by striking subsection (c); and
            (3) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), and (f) as 
        subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 55 of such title is amended--
            (1) by striking the item relating to section 1097 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``1097a. TRICARE Prime: automatic enrollments.'';
        and
            (2) by striking the item relating to section 1099 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``1099. Health care enrollment system and payment options.''.

SEC. 711. MODIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR TRICARE RESERVE SELECT AND 
              TRICARE RETIRED RESERVE OF CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE 
              COMPONENTS.

    (a) TRICARE Reserve Select.--Section 1076d(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``(1) Except as provided 
        in paragraph (2), a member'' and inserting ``A member''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (2).
    (b) TRICARE Retired Reserve.--Section 1076e(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``(1) Except as provided 
        in paragraph (2), a member'' and inserting ``A member''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (2).

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

SEC. 801. SENIOR MILITARY ACQUISITION ADVISOR ELIGIBILITY.

    Section 1725(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended in 
the second sentence by striking ``30 years'' and inserting ``26 
years''.

SEC. 802. REESTABLISHMENT OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT URGENT OPERATIONAL 
              NEEDS FUND.

    Section 2216a(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2018'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.

SEC. 803. AUTHORITY FOR LIFE-OF-TYPE BUYS TO PREVENT MATERIEL SHORTAGES 
              ASSOCIATED WITH DIMINISHING MANUFACTURING SOURCES AND 
              OBSOLESCENCE.

    (a) Authorization.--Chapter 141 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting before section 2389 the following new section:
``Sec. 2388. Life-of-type buys
    ``(a) Authorization.--Notwithstanding section 1502 of title 31, the 
Secretary of Defense may authorize the use of life-of-type buys to 
prevent weapon systems materiel shortages associated with diminishing 
manufacturing sources and obsolescence in such quantities that do not 
exceed the quantity reasonably expected to be required by the 
Department of Defense before a replacement item is identified.
    ``(b) Guidance.--The Secretary shall issue guidance, as necessary, 
to ensure appropriate use of the authorization in this section. The 
guidance, at a minimum, shall require the Department--
            ``(1) to establish that either the original manufacturer 
        and all alternative sources intend to stop production on repair 
        parts that are used on Government weapon systems, or all 
        commercial sources are expected to stop production on 
        commercial items that use older technology and are expected to 
        become obsolete;
            ``(2) to perform an analysis of alternatives before buying 
        spares for more than two years; and
            ``(3) to require approval of the Secretary (without 
        redelegation) if the procurement is to cover requirements for a 
        period exceeding seven years.
    ``(c) Life-of-Type Buy Defined.--In this section, the term `life-
of-type buy' means a one-time procurement for the total future 
requirement of an item that the Secretary determines is no longer 
expected to be produced.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting before the item relating to 
section 2389 the following new item:

``2388. Life-of-type buys.''.

Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

SEC. 811. USE OF TECHNICAL DATA DURING CHALLENGES.

    Section 2321(i) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (1) and adding at the end the 
        following new paragraphs:
    ``(1)(A) Upon issuance of a decision by a contracting officer under 
subsection (g) that an asserted use or release restriction is not 
justified, the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military 
department may, after providing notice to the contractor or 
subcontractor, authorize release, disclosure, or use of the technical 
data in dispute if the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a 
military department, respectively, determines in writing that it is in 
the national security interests of the United States to authorize such 
release, disclosure, or use before--
            ``(i) the filing of an appeal with the agency Board of 
        Contract Appeals;
            ``(ii) the provision to the contracting officer of a 
        written notice of intent to file suit in the United States 
        Court of Federal Claims;
            ``(iii) the filing of a suit in the United States Court of 
        Federal Claims; or
            ``(iv) the final decision by the agency Board of Contract 
        Appeals or the United States Court of Federal Claims.
    ``(B) The authority in subparagraph (A) may be delegated only to 
the senior procurement executive of the agency designated pursuant to 
section 1702(c) of title 41.
    ``(C) A determination under subparagraph (A) shall not affect the 
right of a contractor or subcontractor to damages against the United 
States where an asserted use or release restriction is sustained or to 
pursue other relief, if any, as may be provided by law.
    ``(2) If a contractor or subcontractor does not, not later than 90 
days after the issuance of a decision under subsection (g), appeal to 
an agency Board of Contract Appeals, provide notice to the contracting 
officer of intent to file suit in the United States Court of Federal 
Claims, or file suit in the United States Court of Federal Claims 
pursuant to chapter 71 of title 41, the United States may cancel or 
ignore the asserted use or release restriction and the contractor or 
subcontractor shall be deemed to have agreed to such action by the 
United States.''.

SEC. 812. CODIFICATION AND PERMANENT AUTHORIZATION OF THE MENTOR-
              PROTEGE PROGRAM.

    (a) Codification.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end a new section 2339a consisting of--
            (1) a heading as follows:
``Sec. 2339a. Mentor-Protege Program'';
        and
            (2) the text of subsections (a) through (n) of section 831 
        of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 
        (10 U.S.C. 2302 note).
    (b) Permanent Authorization.--Section 2339a of title 10, United 
States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``Pilot''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Pilot Program'' and inserting 
                ``Program'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``pilot'' each place 
        it appears;
            (3) by striking subsection (j);
            (4) by redesignating subsections (k) through (n) as 
        subsections (j) through (m), respectively;
            (5) in subsection (j) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) by striking ``pilot'' each place it appears; 
                and
                    (B) by striking the third and fourth sentences; and
            (6) in subsection (m) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``has less than half'' in paragraph (2) and inserting ``is not 
        more than''.
    (c) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new item:

``2339a. Mentor-Protege Program.''.
    (d) Repeal of Existing Provision.--Section 831 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
hereby repealed.
    (e) Applicability of Existing Regulations.--Regulations prescribed 
by the Secretary of Defense under section 831 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note), as in 
effect the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall 
continue to apply to section 2339a of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by subsection (a) of this section, until such time as the 
Secretary of Defense prescribes regulations under such section 2339a.

SEC. 813. REMOVAL OF PROHIBITION ON DELEGATION OF DETERMINATIONS FOR 
              IMPROVED CONVENTIONAL DEFENSE CAPABILITIES IN COOPERATIVE 
              RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.

    Section 2350a(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(1)''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (2).

SEC. 814. AUTHORITY TO CEASE SELECTED ACQUISITION REPORTING ON CERTAIN 
              MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.

    Section 2432(g) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``shall cease to apply after 90 percent'' 
        and inserting the following: ``shall cease to apply--
            ``(1) after 90 percent'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (1) of 
        this section, by striking the period and inserting ``; or''; 
        and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) if--
                    ``(A) the procurement unit cost for a fully 
                configured end item is less than $500,000 in fiscal 
                year 2019 constant dollars;
                    ``(B) more than five years have passed since the 
                full-rate production decision for the program; and
                    ``(C) the program is stable and the procurement 
                unit cost has not increased by a percentage equal to or 
                greater than the significant cost threshold or the 
                critical cost threshold (as those terms are defined in 
                section 2433 of this title).''.

SEC. 815. PILOT PROGRAM TO ACCELERATE CONTRACTING AND PRICING 
              PROCESSES.

    Section 890 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b);
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b);
            (3) in subsection (b) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``and an assessment of whether the program should be continued 
        or expanded'';
            (4) by inserting after subsection (b) (as so redesignated) 
        the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Exception to Paperwork Reduction Act.--For purposes of 
developing and submitting the report required by subsection (b), the 
Department of Defense shall not be subject to the requirements of 
section 3507 of title 44, United States Code.''; and
            (5) in subsection (d), by striking ``January 2, 2021'' and 
        inserting ``January 2, 2023''.

SEC. 816. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
              PRODUCED IN COUNTRIES ALONG A MAJOR ROUTE OF SUPPLY TO 
              AFGHANISTAN.

    Section 801(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2399), as most recently amended 
by section 1214 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1649), is further amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.

SEC. 817. EXTENSION AND REVISION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR TECHNICAL 
              EXPERTS INTO THE DEFENSE ACQUISITION WORKFORCE.

    Section 1113 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Each'' and inserting ``The 
                Secretary of Defense and each'';
                    (B) by striking ``possessing a scientific or 
                engineering degree''; and
                    (C) by striking ``for that military department'' 
                and inserting ``for the Department of Defense or for 
                that military department, respectively,'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``scientific and 
        engineering positions'' and inserting ``scientific, technical, 
        engineering, and mathematics positions, including 
        technicians,'';
            (3) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Limitation.--The total number of persons appointed by the 
Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department under 
subsection (a) during a fiscal year may not exceed the number equal to 
5 percent of the number of hires made into scientific, technical, 
engineering, and mathematics positions, including technicians, within 
the acquisition workforce of the Department of Defense or that military 
department, respectively.'';
            (4) by striking subsection (e);
            (5) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e); and
            (6) in subsection (e) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2023''.

SEC. 818. AMENDMENTS TO RESEARCH PROJECT TRANSACTION AUTHORITIES TO 
              ELIMINATE COST-SHARING REQUIREMENTS AND REDUCE BURDENS ON 
              USE.

    (a) Cooperative Agreements for Research Projects.--Section 2371(e) 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (2);
            (2) by striking paragraph (1)(B);
            (3) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a period; and
            (4) by striking ``(e) Conditions.--(1) The Secretary of 
        Defense'' and all that follows through ``(A) to the maximum 
        extent practicable'' and inserting ``(e) Conditions.--The 
        Secretary of Defense, to the maximum extent practicable''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2371b(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``(b) Exercise of Authority.--'' 
and all that follows through ``(2) To the maximum extent practicable'' 
and inserting ``(b) Exercise of Authority.--To the maximum extent 
practicable''.

SEC. 819. DEFENSE MODERNIZATION ACCOUNT.

    Section 2216 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(5) For paying development, integration and validation, 
        and permanent platform alteration costs associated with a 
        technology prototype project undertaken under subchapter II of 
        chapter 144B of this title.'';
            (2) in subsection (f), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(4) Amounts transferred under such authority shall be 
        merged with and be available for the same purposes and for the 
        same time period as the fund or appropriations to which 
        transferred.''; and
            (3) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``subsection 
        (c)(1)(B)(iii)'' and inserting ``subsection (c)(1)(B)(ii)''.

             Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Small Business

SEC. 821. CHANGE OF BASIS FOR CALCULATING REQUIRED EXPENDITURE AMOUNT 
              FOR SBIR AND STTR.

    Section 9(e)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e)(1)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``except that for the Agency'' and 
        inserting the following: ``except that--
                    ``(A) for the Agency''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1) of 
        this section, by striking ``foreign countries, and except that 
        for'' and inserting the following: ``foreign countries;
                    ``(B) for the Department of Defense, the Secretary 
                of Defense shall determine the amount not later than 
                120 days after the date of the enactment of an 
                appropriations Act or continuing resolution that 
                appropriates funds for the Department of Defense 
                through the end of the fiscal year concerned; and
                    ``(C) for''.

SEC. 822. PHASE FLEXIBILITY PERMANENCY FOR SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION 
              RESEARCH AND SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROGRAMS.

    Section 9(cc) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(cc)) is 
amended by striking ``During fiscal years 2012 through 2022, the'' and 
inserting ``The''.

SEC. 823. PERMANENCY OF ADMINISTRATIVE FUNDS PILOT PROGRAM.

    Section 9(mm)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(mm)(1)) 
is amended by striking ``and until September 30, 2022''.

SEC. 824. CLARIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR SEQUENTIAL PHASE II AWARDS.

    Section 9(ff) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(ff)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(3) Clarification of sequential phase ii awards.--The 
        head of a Federal agency shall ensure that any sequential Phase 
        II award is made in accordance with the limitations on award 
        sizes under subsection (aa).
            ``(4) Cross-agency sequential phase ii awards.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A small business concern that 
                receives a sequential Phase II SBIR or Phase II STTR 
                award for a project from a Federal agency is eligible 
                to receive an additional sequential Phase II award that 
                continues, or logically extends to other applications, 
                the work on that project from another Federal agency.
                    ``(B) Department of defense.--In applying 
                subparagraph (A), each component of the Department of 
                Defense shall be considered a separate Federal 
                agency.''.

SEC. 825. PARTNERSHIP INTERMEDIARY PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense may authorize the 
Commander of United States Special Operations Command to use not more 
than 10 percent of the funds required to be expended by the Department 
of Defense under section 9(f)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
638(f)(1)) for a pilot program to increase participation by small 
business concerns in the development of technology-enhanced 
capabilities for special operations forces.
    (b) Use of Partnership Intermediary.--
            (1) Authorization.--The Commander of United States Special 
        Operations Command may enter into an agreement with a 
        partnership intermediary to assist the Commander in carrying 
        out the pilot program under this section, including with 
        respect to the award of Small Business Innovation Research 
        Program contracts, Small Business Technology Transfer Program 
        contracts, and other contracts and agreements to small business 
        concerns.
            (2) Use of funds.--None of the funds referred to in 
        subsection (a) shall be used to pay a partnership intermediary 
        for any administrative costs associated with the pilot program.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Partnership intermediary.--The term ``partnership 
        intermediary'' has the meaning given the term in section 23(c) 
        of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 
        U.S.C. 3715(c)).
            (2) Small business concern.--The term ``small business 
        concern'' has the meaning given the term in section 3(a) of the 
        Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)).
            (3) Small business innovation research program.--The term 
        ``Small Business Innovation Research Program'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 9(e)(4) of the Small Business Act (15 
        U.S.C. 638(e)).
            (4) Small business technology transfer program.--The term 
        ``Small Business Technology Transfer Program'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 9(e)(5) of the Small Business Act (15 
        U.S.C. 638(e)).
    (d) Sunset.--The authority to carry out a pilot program under this 
section shall terminate on September 30, 2022.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 831. TIMELINESS RULES FOR FILING BID PROTESTS AT THE UNITED STATES 
              COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS.

    (a) Jurisdiction.--Paragraph (1) of section 1491(b) of title 28, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``Both the'' and all 
        that follows through ``shall have'' and inserting ``The United 
        States Court of Federal Claims shall have''; and
            (2) in the second sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``Both the'' and all that follows 
                through ``shall have'' and inserting ``The United 
                States Court of Federal Claims shall have''; and
                    (B) by striking ``is awarded.'' and inserting ``is 
                awarded, but such jurisdiction is subject to time 
                limits as follows:
            ``(A) A protest based upon alleged improprieties in a 
        solicitation that are apparent before bid opening or the time 
        set for receipt of initial proposals shall be filed before bid 
        opening or the time set for receipt of initial proposals. In 
        the case of a procurement where proposals are requested, 
        alleged improprieties that do not exist in the initial 
        solicitation but that are subsequently incorporated into the 
        solicitation shall be protested not later than the next closing 
        time for receipt of proposals following the incorporation. A 
        protest that meets these time limitations that was previously 
        filed with the Comptroller General may not be reviewed.
            ``(B) A protest other than one covered by subparagraph (A) 
        shall be filed not later than 10 days after the basis of the 
        protest is known or should have been known (whichever is 
        earlier), with the exception of a protest challenging a 
        procurement conducted on the basis of competitive proposals 
        under which a debriefing is requested and, when requested, is 
        required. In such a case, with respect to any protest the basis 
        of which is known or should have been known either before or as 
        a result of the debriefing, the initial protest shall not be 
        filed before the debriefing date offered to the protester, but 
        shall be filed not later than 10 days after the date on which 
        the debriefing is held.
            ``(C) If a timely agency-level protest was previously 
        filed, any subsequent protest to the United States Court of 
        Federal Claims that is filed within 10 days of actual or 
        constructive knowledge of initial adverse agency action shall 
        be considered, if the agency-level protest was filed in 
        accordance with subparagraphs (A) and (B), unless the 
        contracting agency imposes a more stringent time for filing the 
        protest, in which case the agency's time for filing shall 
        control. In a case where an alleged impropriety in a 
        solicitation is timely protested to a contracting agency, any 
        subsequent protest to the United States Court of Federal Claims 
        shall be considered timely if filed within the 10-day period 
        provided by this subparagraph, even if filed after bid opening 
        or the closing time for receipt of proposals.
            ``(D) Under no circumstances may the United States Court of 
        Federal Claims consider a protest that is untimely because it 
        was first filed with the Comptroller General.''.
    (b) Available Relief.--Paragraph (2) of such section is amended by 
inserting ``monetary relief shall not be available if injunctive relief 
is or has been granted, and'' after ``except that''.
    (c) Agency Decisions Overriding Stay of Contract Award or 
Performance.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) as paragraphs 
        (6) and (7), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph (5):
            ``(5) The United States Court of Federal Claims shall have 
        jurisdiction to render judgment on an action by an interested 
        party challenging an agency's decision to override a stay of 
        contract award or contract performance that would otherwise be 
        required by section 3553 of title 31. Such an action shall be 
        filed within 10 days of actual or constructive notification of 
        the agency's written determination to proceed with the award or 
        performance of the contract.''.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) In general.--Section 3556 of title 31, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``instead of with the Comptroller 
                General'' before the period at the end of the first 
                sentence; and
                    (B) by striking the second sentence.
            (2) Section heading amendment.--The heading of such section 
        is amended by striking ``; matter included in agency record''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to any cause of action filed 180 days or more after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 832. REMOVING BARRIERS TO, AND EXTENSION OF, THE DEFENSE 
              PRODUCTION ACT.

    (a) Loans to Private Business Enterprises.--Section 302 of the 
Defense Production Act (50 U.S.C. 4532) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``or guaranteed'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``guarantees'' 
                and inserting ``loans''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``that may be 
                guaranteed'' and inserting ``disbursed''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)(2)(B), by striking ``, on a 
        nondelegable basis,''.
    (b) Presidential Actions.--Section 303(a) of the Defense Production 
Act (50 U.S.C. 4533(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``on a nondelegable basis'' and inserting ``or 
        the Secretary of Defense if so delegated''; and
            (2) in paragraph (6), by striking subparagraph (C).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 711 of the Defense 
Production Act (50 U.S.C. 4561) is amended by striking ``is authorized 
to be appropriated $133,000,000 for fiscal year 2015 and each fiscal 
year thereafter'' and inserting ``are hereby authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary and appropriate''.

SEC. 833. AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS FOR CONTRACTED ADVERSARY 
              AIR AND CONTRACTED CLOSE AIR SUPPORT.

    (a) Authority To Enter Into Contracts.--In accordance with section 
2401 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of a military 
department may enter into a long-term contract for contracted adversary 
air and contracted close air support to provide for the training of 
military personnel.
    (b) Nonapplicability of Certain Requirements.--The notification and 
certification requirements of section 2401(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, do not apply to contracted adversary air and contracted 
close air support training services authorized under this section.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall be effective for fiscal 
year 2020 and each fiscal year thereafter.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

SEC. 901. UPDATE OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, 
              AND COMMUNICATIONS.

    (a) Duties and Powers of Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Sustainment.--Section 133b(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7) as 
        paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph (4):
            ``(4) establishing policies for, and providing oversight, 
        guidance, and coordination for, nuclear command and control 
        systems;''; and
            (3) in paragraph (6), as so redesignated, by inserting 
        after ``overseeing the modernization of nuclear forces'' the 
        following: ``, including the nuclear command, control, and 
        communications system,''.
    (b) Chief Information Officer.--Section 142(b)(1) of such title is 
amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraph (G); and
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (H) and (I) as 
        subparagraphs (G) and (H), respectively.

SEC. 902. CODIFICATION AND PERMANENT EXTENSION OF GOVERNMENT LODGING 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Codification.--Subchapter II of chapter 8 of title 37, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 464 a new section 
465 consisting of--
            (1) a heading as follows:
``Sec. 465. Authority to require the occupation of quarters on a rental 
              basis while performing official travel'';
        and
            (2) a text consisting of the text of subsections (a) and 
        (c) of section 914 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
        McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
        (5 U.S.C. 5911 note).
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) In general.--Section 465 of title 37, United States 
        Code, as inserted by subsection (a) of this section, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``, United States Code''; 
                        and
                            (ii) by striking ``, for the period of time 
                        described in subsection (b),'';
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection 
                (b); and
                    (C) in subsection (b) (as so redesignated) by 
                striking ``, United States Code''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 464 the following new item:

``465. Authority to require the occupation of quarters on a rental 
                            basis while performing official travel.''.
            (3) Repeal of pilot program.--Section 914 of the Carl Levin 
        and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (5 U.S.C. 5911 note) is repealed.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 1001. REFUELING AND COMPLEX OVERHAUL OF USS JOHN C. STENNIS.

    (a) Refueling and Complex Overhaul.--The Secretary of the Navy may 
carry out the nuclear refueling and complex overhaul of the USS John C. 
Stennis (CVN-74).
    (b) Use of Incremental Funding.--With respect to any contract 
entered into under subsection (a) for the nuclear refueling and complex 
overhaul of the USS John C. Stennis, the Secretary may use incremental 
funding for a period not to exceed six years after advance procurement 
funds for such nuclear refueling and complex overhaul effort are first 
obligated.
    (c) Condition for Out-Year Contract Payments.--Any contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2020 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for that later fiscal year.

SEC. 1002. REDUCTION IN THE MINIMUM NUMBER OF NAVY CARRIER AIR WINGS 
              AND CARRIER AIR WING HEADQUARTERS REQUIRED TO BE 
              MAINTAINED.

    Section 5062(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the following new 
paragraphs:
            ``(1) the Navy maintains a minimum of 9 carrier air wings 
        until the date on which additional operationally deployable 
        aircraft carriers can fully support a 10th carrier air wing on 
        a long-term sustainable basis;
            ``(2) after the date referred to in paragraph (1), the Navy 
        maintains a minimum of 10 carrier air wings; and''.

SEC. 1003. ENSURING OPERATIONAL READINESS OF LITTORAL COMBAT SHIPS ON 
              EXTENDED DEPLOYMENTS.

    Section 8680(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subparagraph (D).

SEC. 1004. REGULATION OF DISCHARGES INCIDENTAL TO THE NORMAL OPERATIONS 
              OF A VESSEL OF THE ARMED FORCES UNDER THE FEDERAL WATER 
              POLLUTION CONTROL ACT.

    Subparagraph (B) of section 312(n)(6) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1322(n)) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: ``When conducted in compliance with regulations 
promulgated pursuant to paragraph (4), any discharge incidental to the 
normal operation of a vessel of the Armed Forces is considered a 
federally permitted release within the meaning of paragraph (10) of 
section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, 
and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601(10)), and is excluded from 
the definition of solid waste under paragraph (27) of section 1004 of 
the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6903(27)).''.

SEC. 1005. PROVIDING PROTECTION TO THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE MARINE 
              CORPS AND THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY.

    Section 2465(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) A contract for the performance of on-site armed 
        security guard functions to be performed--
                    ``(A) at the Marine Corps Heritage Center at Marine 
                Corps Base Quantico, including the National Museum of 
                the Marine Corps; or
                    ``(B) at the Heritage Center for the National 
                Museum of the United States Army at Fort Belvoir, 
                Virginia.''.

SEC. 1006. REVISIONS TO WORKING-CAPITAL FUNDS STATUTE.

     Section 2208(l)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following: ``The dollar limitation in the 
preceding sentence on advance billing of a customer of a working-
capital fund shall not apply with respect to advance billing for 
humanitarian assistance or for relief efforts following a declaration 
of a major disaster or emergency under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).''.

SEC. 1007. ACCESS TO AND USE OF MILITARY POSTAL SERVICE BY U.S. 
              CITIZENS EMPLOYED OVERSEAS BY THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY 
              ORGANIZATION WHO PERFORM FUNCTIONS IN SUPPORT OF MILITARY 
              OPERATIONS OF THE ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES.

    Section 406 of title 39, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) The Secretary of Defense may authorize the use of Armed 
Forces post offices in overseas locations by United States citizens who 
are employed by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization when such 
citizens perform functions in support of the Armed Forces of the United 
States and when the Secretary makes a written determination that it is 
in the best interests of the Department of Defense and that such a 
grant is otherwise authorized by applicable host nation law or 
agreement. No funds may be obligated or expended to establish, 
maintain, or expand an Armed Forces post office for this purpose.''.

SEC. 1008. PERMANENT AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION TO ISSUE 
              NON-PREMIUM AVIATION INSURANCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 44310(b) of title 49, United States Code, 
is repealed.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 44310(a) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``(a) In General.--''.

SEC. 1009. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO USE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REIMBURSEMENT RATE FOR 
              TRANSPORTATION SERVICES PROVIDED TO CERTAIN NON-
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ENTITIES.

    Section 2642(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``October 1, 2019'' and inserting ``October 1, 2024''.

SEC. 1010. INCREASE OF MINIMUM DOLLAR THRESHOLD FOR DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE INTEREST PENALTY PAYMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3902(c) of title 31, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(4) In the case of payments due from the Department of Defense, 
paragraph (1) shall be applied by substituting `$20.00' for `$1.00'.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to payments that first become due from the Department of Defense 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1011. TECHNICAL AND GRAMMATICAL CORRECTIONS AND REPEAL OF OBSOLETE 
              PROVISIONS RELATING TO ENERGY.

    (a) Technical Corrections.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in section 2913(c), by striking ``government'' and 
        inserting ``government or''; and
            (2) in section 2926(d)(1), in the second sentence, by 
        striking ``and Defense'' and inserting ``and the Defense''.
    (b) Grammatical Corrections.--Such title is further amended--
            (1) in section 2922a(d), by striking ``resilience are 
        prioritized and included'' and inserting ``energy resilience 
        are included as critical factors''; and
            (2) in section 2925(a)(3), by striking ``impacting energy'' 
        and all that follows and inserting ``degrading energy 
        resilience at military installations (excluding planned outages 
        for maintenance reasons), whether caused by on- or off-
        installation disruptions, including the total number of outages 
        and their locations, the duration of each outage, the financial 
        effect of each outage, whether or not the mission was affected, 
        the downtimes (in minutes or hours) the mission can afford 
        based on mission requirements and risk tolerances, the 
        responsible authority managing the utility, and measures taken 
        to mitigate the outage by the responsible authority.''.
    (c) Clarification of Applicability of Conflicting Amendments Made 
by the 2018 Defense Authorization Act.--Section 2911(e) of such title 
is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the 
        following new paragraphs:
            ``(1) Opportunities to reduce the current rate of 
        consumption of energy, the future demand for energy, and the 
        requirement for the use of energy.
            ``(2) Opportunities to enhance energy resilience to ensure 
        the Department of Defense has the ability to prepare for and 
        recover from energy disruptions that affect mission assurance 
        on military installations.''; and
            (2) by amending paragraph (13) to read as follows:
            ``(13) Opportunities to leverage financing provided by a 
        non-Department entity to address installation energy needs.''.
    (d) Updated Section Heading.--Section 2926 of such title is amended 
in the heading, by striking ``activities''.
    (e) Repeal of Obsolete Provisions.--Sections 2922b and 2922d of 
such title are repealed.
    (f) Table of Sections Amendments.--The table of sections--
            (1) at the beginning of subchapter II of chapter 173 of 
        such title is amended by striking the items relating to 
        sections 2922b and 2922d; and
            (2) at the beginning of subchapter III of chapter 173 of 
        such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 
        2926 and inserting the following new item:

``2926. Operational energy.''.

SEC. 1012. INCLUSION OF VETERANS ON TEMPORARY DISABILITY OR PERMANENT 
              DISABLED RETIREMENT LISTS IN MILITARY ADAPTIVE SPORTS 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) Inclusion of Veterans.--Section 2564a(a)(1) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``for members of the armed forces 
who'' and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
the following: ``for--
                    ``(A) any member of the armed forces who is 
                eligible to participate in adaptive sports because of 
                an injury, illness, or wound incurred in the line of 
                duty in the armed forces; and
                    ``(B) any veteran (as defined in section 101 of 
                title 38), during the one-year period following the 
                veteran's date of separation, who--
                            ``(i) is on the Temporary Disability 
                        Retirement List or Permanently Disabled 
                        Retirement List;
                            ``(ii) is eligible to participate in 
                        adaptive sports because of an injury, illness, 
                        or wound incurred in the line of duty in the 
                        armed forces; and
                            ``(iii) was enrolled in the program 
                        authorized under this section prior to the 
                        veteran's date of separation.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2564a(b) of such title is 
amended by inserting ``and veterans'' after ``members''.

SEC. 1013. REVISION TO AUTHORITIES RELATING TO MAIL SERVICE FOR MEMBERS 
              OF THE ARMED FORCES AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIANS 
              OVERSEAS.

    (a) Eligibility for Free Mail.--Subsection (a) of section 3401 of 
title 39, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a)(1) First Class letter mail correspondence shall be carried, 
at no cost to the sender, in the manner provided by this section, when 
mailed by an eligible individual described in paragraph (2) and 
addressed to a place within the delivery limits of a United States post 
office, if--
            ``(A) such letter mail is mailed by the eligible individual 
        at an Armed Forces post office established in an overseas area 
        designated by the President, where the Armed Forces of the 
        United States are deployed for a contingency operation as 
        determined by the Secretary of Defense; or
            ``(B) the eligible individual is hospitalized as a result 
        of disease or injury incurred as a result of service in an 
        overseas area designated by the President under subparagraph 
        (A).
    ``(2) An eligible individual referred to in paragraph (1) is--
            ``(A) a member of the Armed Forces of the United States on 
        active duty, as defined in section 101 of title 10; or
            ``(B) a civilian employee of the Department of Defense or a 
        military department who is providing support to military 
        operations.''.
    (b) Surface Shipment of Mail Authorized.--Such section is further 
amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c);
            (2) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g) as 
        subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f), respectively; and
            (3) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(b) There shall be transported by either surface or air, 
consistent with the service purchased by the mailer, between Armed 
Forces post offices or from an Armed Forces post office to a point of 
entry into the United States, the following categories of mail matter 
which are mailed at any such Armed Forces post office:
            ``(1) Letter mail communications having the character of 
        personal correspondence.
            ``(2) Any parcel exceeding one pound in weight but less 
        than 70 pounds in weight and less than 130 linear inches 
        (length plus girth).
            ``(3) Publications published once each week or more 
        frequently and featuring principally current news of interest 
        to members of the Armed Forces and the general public.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The heading for such section, and the item 
relating to such section in the table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 34 of such title, are each amended by striking the last five 
words.

SEC. 1014. CLARIFICATION OF INSPECTOR GENERAL AUTHORITIES CONCERNING 
              OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

    Section 8L(d)(2) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App. 8L(d)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``to exercise 
                responsibility for discharging oversight 
                responsibilities in accordance with this Act with 
                respect to such matter'' and inserting ``to identify 
                and coordinate with the Inspector General with primary 
                jurisdiction over the matter to ensure effective 
                oversight''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(iii) Upon the written request of an 
                        Inspector General with primary jurisdiction 
                        over a matter with respect to the contingency 
                        operation, and with the approval of the lead 
                        Inspector General, an Inspector General 
                        specified in subsection (c) may provide 
                        investigative support or may conduct an 
                        independent investigation of an allegation of 
                        criminal activity by United States personnel, 
                        contractors, subcontractors, grantees, or 
                        vendors within the theater of operations that 
                        relates to the matter. If the lead Inspector 
                        General determines that no Inspector General 
                        has primary jurisdiction over the matter, the 
                        lead Inspector General may conduct an 
                        independent investigation or may request that 
                        another Inspector General specified in 
                        subsection (c) conduct an independent 
                        investigation.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(I) An Inspector General responsible for 
                conducting oversight of any program or operation 
                performed in support of the contingency operation shall 
                coordinate such oversight activities with the lead 
                Inspector General and shall provide information 
                requested by the lead Inspector General relating to the 
                lead Inspector General's responsibilities specified in 
                subparagraphs (B), (C), and (G).''.

SEC. 1015. LICENSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE VETERINARY 
              PROFESSIONALS: EMERGENCIES AND DISASTERS.

    (a) Licensure Requirements.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after section 1094a the following new 
section:
``Sec. 1094b. Licensure requirement for veterinary professionals: 
              emergencies and disasters
    ``(a) Notwithstanding any provision of law regarding the licensure 
of veterinary care and service providers, a veterinary professional 
described in subsection (b) may practice the veterinary profession of 
the veterinary professional at any location in any State, the District 
of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States, without 
regard to where such veterinary professional or the patient animal is 
located, if such practice is within the scope of the authorized Federal 
duties of such veterinary professional.
    ``(b) A veterinary professional described in this subsection is a 
person who is--
            ``(1) certified as a veterinary professional by a 
        certification recognized by the Secretary of Defense;
            ``(2) currently licensed by a State, the District of 
        Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States to 
        practice veterinary care and services; and
            ``(3)(A) a member of the armed forces, a civilian employee 
        of the Department of Defense, or otherwise credentialed and 
        privileged at a Federal veterinary institution or location 
        designated by the Secretary for purposes of this section and is 
        performing authorized duties for the Department of Defense for 
        the purposes described in subsection (c); or
            ``(B) a member of the National Guard who is performing 
        authorized veterinary care or services for the Department of 
        Defense in a duty status pursuant to section 502(f) of title 32 
        for the purposes described in subsection (c).
    ``(c) The purposes described in this subsection are veterinary 
practice related to--
            ``(1) a national emergency declared by the President 
        pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et 
        seq.);
            ``(2) a major disaster or emergency (as those terms are 
        defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster and 
        Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122));
            ``(3) a public health emergency, as determined by the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services under section 319 of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d); or
            ``(4) an extraordinary emergency, as determined by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture under section 10407 of the Animal 
        Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8306).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 55 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1094a the following new item:

``1094b. Licensure requirement for veterinary professionals: 
                            emergencies and disasters.''.

SEC. 1016. ELIMINATION OF REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT REPORTS TO CONGRESS IN 
              PAPER FORMAT.

    Section 480 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``a copy of'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c) Elimination of Paper Submission Requirement.--Whenever the 
Secretary (or other official) provides a report to Congress (or any 
committee of either House of Congress) in an electronic medium under 
subsection (a), the Secretary (or other official) shall not be required 
to submit an additional copy of the report in a paper format.''.

SEC. 1017. CLARIFICATION OF THE AUTHORITY OF MILITARY COMMISSIONS 
              ESTABLISHED UNDER CHAPTER 47A TO PUNISH CONTEMPT.

    (a) Clarification.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter IV of chapter 47A of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new section:
``Sec. 949o-1. Contempt
    ``(a) Authority To Punish.--(1) With respect to any proceeding 
under this chapter, a judicial officer specified in paragraph (2) may 
punish for contempt any person who--
            ``(A) uses any menacing word, sign, or gesture in the 
        presence of the judicial officer during the proceeding;
            ``(B) disturbs the proceeding by any riot or disorder; or
            ``(C) willfully disobeys a lawful writ, process, order, 
        rule, decree, or command issued with respect to the proceeding.
    ``(2) A judicial officer referred to in paragraph (1) is any of the 
following:
            ``(A) Any judge of the United States Court of Military 
        Commission Review.
            ``(B) Any military judge detailed to a military commission 
        or any other proceeding under this chapter.
    ``(b) Punishment.--The punishment for contempt under subsection (a) 
may not exceed confinement for 30 days, a fine of $1,000, or both.
    ``(c) Review.--(1) A punishment under this section--
            ``(A) is not reviewable by the convening authority of a 
        military commission under this chapter;
            ``(B) if imposed by a military judge, shall constitute a 
        judgment, subject to review in the first instance only by the 
        United States Court of Military Commission Review and then only 
        by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of 
        Columbia Circuit; and
            ``(C) if imposed by a judge of the United States Court of 
        Military Commission Review, shall constitute a judgment of the 
        court subject to review only by the United States Court of 
        Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
    ``(2) In reviewing a punishment for contempt imposed under this 
section, the reviewing court shall affirm such punishment unless the 
court finds that imposing such punishment was an abuse of the 
discretion of the judicial officer who imposed such punishment.
    ``(3) A petition for review of punishment for contempt imposed 
under this section shall be filed not later than 60 days after the date 
on which the authenticated record upon which the contempt punishment is 
based and any contempt proceedings conducted by the judicial officer 
are served on the person punished for contempt.
    ``(d) Punishment Not Conviction.--Punishment for contempt is not a 
conviction or sentence within the meaning of section 949m of this 
title. The imposition of punishment for contempt is not governed by 
other provisions of this chapter applicable to military commissions, 
except that the Secretary of Defense may prescribe procedures for 
contempt proceedings and punishments, pursuant to the authority 
provided in section 949a of this title.''.
            (2) Table of sections amendment.--The table of sections at 
        the beginning of such subchapter is amended by adding at the 
        end the following new item:

``949o-1. Contempt.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 950t of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (31); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (32) as paragraph (31).
    (c) Rule of Construction.--The amendments made by subsections (a) 
and (b) shall not be construed to affect the lawfulness of any 
punishment for contempt adjudged prior to the effective date of such 
amendments.
    (d) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall 
apply with respect to conduct by a person that occurs on or after such 
date.

SEC. 1018. TARIFFS ON AIRCRAFT TRAVELING THROUGH CHANNEL ROUTES.

    Section 2652 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking the period at the end and inserting the following: ``, except 
that such prohibition shall not apply if costs are incurred by United 
States Transportation Command in supporting the passengers and cargo of 
that military service transported in such aircraft, or in support of 
the aircraft itself.''.

SEC. 1019. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION AND CONTROL OVER 
              PUBLIC LANDS LOCATED IN ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA.

    (a) Transfer to Secretary of the Army.--
            (1) Transfer.--Effective on the date of the enactment of 
        this Act, administrative jurisdiction and control is 
        transferred from the Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary 
        of the Army over the approximately 16.09 acre parcel of real 
        property described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Land description.--The parcel of real property 
        described in this paragraph is the parcel in Arlington, 
        Virginia, adjacent to and comprising Memorial Avenue from the 
        western side of the Route 110 overpass west to and including 
        the hemicycle used by the Women in Military Service for America 
        Memorial, as depicted in blue on the map titled ``Arlington 
        National Cemetery, Memorial Ave - NPS Parcel'', dated November 
        25, 2018.
    (b) Transfer to Secretary of the Interior.--
            (1) Transfer.--Effective on the date of the enactment of 
        this Act, administrative jurisdiction and control is 
        transferred from the Secretary of the Army to the Secretary of 
        the Interior over the approximately 1.04 acre parcel of real 
        property described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Land description.--The parcel of real property 
        described in this paragraph is the parcel in Arlington, 
        Virginia, adjacent to the Chaffee parking lot and comprising of 
        one structure and bounded on the northeast by Sherman Drive, as 
        depicted in green on the map titled ``Arlington National 
        Cemetery - Chaffee NPS Land Swap'', dated October 31, 2018.
    (c) Land Surveys.--The exact acreage and legal description of the 
parcels of real property described in subsections (a)(2) and (b)(2) 
shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the 
Army and the Secretary of the Interior.
    (d) Authority To Correct Errors.--The Secretary of the Army and the 
Secretary of the Interior may correct clerical and typographical errors 
in the maps referred to in subsections (a)(2) and (b)(2).
    (e) Terms and Conditions.--
            (1) No reimbursement or consideration.--The transfers under 
        subsections (a) and (b) shall be without reimbursement or 
        consideration.
            (2) Management of parcel transferred to secretary of the 
        army.--The real property transferred to the Secretary of the 
        Army under section (a) shall be administered as part of 
        Arlington National Cemetery in accordance with applicable laws 
        and regulations, including section 2409 of title 38, United 
        States Code, which shall govern the erection of monuments on 
        the property.
            (3) Management of parcel transferred to secretary of the 
        interior.--The land transferred to the Secretary of the 
        Interior under subsection (b) shall be included within the 
        boundary of the Robert E. Lee Memorial (Arlington House) and 
        shall be administered as part of that park in accordance with 
        applicable laws and regulations.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

SEC. 1101. ENHANCEMENT OF CAPABILITIES TO MANAGE CIVILIAN FACULTY AT 
              ARMY AND NAVY EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) Faculty Members at Army Institutions.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7371 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``and United States 
                Army Command and General Staff College'' and inserting 
                ``, United States Army Command and General Staff 
                College, and Army University'';
                    (B) in subsection (a), by striking ``or the United 
                States Army Command and General Staff College'' and 
                inserting ``, the United States Army Command and 
                General Staff College, or the Army University''; and
                    (C) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the 
                following new subsections:
    ``(c) Work Schedule.--The Secretary of the Army may, 
notwithstanding the provisions of subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5 
or section 6101 of such title, prescribe for persons employed under 
this section the work schedule, including hours of work and tours of 
duty, set forth with such specificity and other characteristics as the 
Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(d) Agency Rights.--Notwithstanding chapter 71 of title 5, the 
authority conferred by this section shall be exercised at the sole and 
exclusive discretion of the Secretary of the Army, or the Secretary's 
designee.''.
            (2) Table of sections amendment.--The table of sections at 
        the beginning of chapter 373 of such title is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 7371 and inserting the 
        following new item:

``7371. Army War College, United States Army Command and General Staff 
                            College, and Army University: civilian 
                            faculty members.''.
    (b) Faculty Members at Navy and Marine Corps Institutions.--Section 
8748 of such title is amended by striking subsection (c) and inserting 
the following new subsections:
    ``(c) Work Schedule.--The Secretary of the Navy may, 
notwithstanding the provisions of subchapter V of chapter 55 of title 5 
or section 6101 of such title, prescribe for persons employed under 
this section the work schedule, including hours of work and tours of 
duty, set forth with such specificity and other characteristics as the 
Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(d) Agency Rights.--Notwithstanding chapter 71 of title 5, the 
authority conferred by this section shall be exercised at the sole and 
exclusive discretion of the Secretary of the Navy, or the Secretary's 
designee.''.

SEC. 1102. EMPLOYMENT AUTHORITY FOR CIVILIAN FACULTY AT CERTAIN 
              MILITARY DEPARTMENT SCHOOLS.

    (a) Addition of Army University and Additional Faculty.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7371 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``the Army War 
                College or the United States Army Command and General 
                Staff College'' and inserting ``the Army War College, 
                the United States Army Command and General Staff 
                College, and the Army University''; and
                    (B) by striking subsection (c).
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section heading.--Section 7371 of such title is 
                amended by striking the section designation and heading 
                and inserting the following:
``Sec. 7371. Army War College, United States Army Command and General 
              Staff College, and Army University: civilian faculty 
              members''.
                    (B) Table of contents.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 747 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 7371 and 
                inserting the following:

``7371. Army War College, United States Army Command and General Staff 
                            College, and Army University: civilian 
                            faculty members.''.
    (b) Naval War College and Marine Corps University.--Section 8748 of 
such title is amended by striking subsection (c).
    (c) Air University.--Section 9371 of such title is amended by 
striking subsection (c).

SEC. 1103. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL LIMITATION 
              ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE LIMITATION ON PAY FOR 
              FEDERAL CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS.

    (a) Extension of Authority.--Section 1101(a) of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4615), as most recently amended by section 1104 of 
the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further amended by striking ``through 
2019'' and inserting ``through 2020''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2020.

SEC. 1104. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO GRANT 
              ALLOWANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES TO CIVILIAN 
              PERSONNEL ON OFFICIAL DUTY IN A COMBAT ZONE.

    Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane 
Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section 
1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4616) and as most recently 
amended by section 1115 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further 
amended by striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2021''.

SEC. 1105. REVISION TO CERTAIN OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS-RELATED 
              INSPECTOR GENERAL AUTHORITIES: HIRING AUTHORITIES.

    Section 8L(d) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 
8L(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)(E), by inserting ``(but without regard 
        to subsection (b)(2) of such section)'' after ``United States 
        Code,'';
            (2) in paragraph (3), by amending subparagraph (C) to read 
        as follows:
    ``(C)(i) An annuitant receiving an annuity under the Foreign 
Service Retirement and Disability System or the Foreign Service Pension 
System under chapter 8 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4041 et seq.) who is reemployed under this subsection shall 
continue to receive such annuity and shall not be considered a 
participant for purposes of chapter 8 of title I of the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4041 et seq.) or an employee for purposes of 
subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    ``(ii) An annuitant described in clause (i) may elect in writing 
for the reemployment of such annuitant under this subsection to be 
subject to section 824 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
4064). A reemployed annuitant shall make an election under this clause 
not later than 90 days after the date of the reemployment of such 
annuitant.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5)(A) A person employed by a lead Inspector General for an 
overseas contingency operation under this section is eligible for 
noncompetitive conversion to a career-conditional or career appointment 
in the same position upon the completion of two years of service as an 
employee under this section.
    ``(B) No person may be converted to a career-conditional or career 
appointment under subparagraph (A) after December 31, 2024.''.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

SEC. 1201. EXTENSION OF CROSS-SERVICING AGREEMENTS FOR LOAN OF 
              PERSONNEL PROTECTION AND SURVIVABILITY EQUIPMENT IN 
              COALITION OPERATIONS.

     Section 1207(e) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 10 U.S.C. 2342 note) is amended by striking ``2019'' and 
inserting ``2024''.

SEC. 1202. EXTENSION OF COMMANDERS' EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROGRAM.

    Section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1619) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``December 31, 2019'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2020'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``2019'' and 
        inserting ``2020''; and
            (3) in subsection (f) in the first sentence, by striking 
        ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.

SEC. 1203. AUTHORITY TO REIMBURSE NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE SALARIES 
              FOR CERTAIN ACTIVITIES IN SUPPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              STATE.

    Section 503(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2311(a)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as 
        subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively;
            (2) by striking ``(a) The'' and inserting ``(a)(1) The'';
            (3) in the matter following subparagraph (C) (as 
        redesignated by paragraph (1) of this section), by striking 
        ``Sales which'' and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Sales that''; and
            (4) in paragraph (2) (as designated by paragraph (3) of 
        this section)--
                    (A) by striking ``paragraph (3)'' and inserting 
                ``paragraph (1)(C)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``United States'' and all that 
                follows and inserting the following: ``United States 
                other than members of--
                    ``(A) the Coast Guard; and
                    ``(B) the reserve components of the Army, Navy, Air 
                Force, or Marine Corps who are ordered to active duty 
                pursuant to chapter 1209 of title 10, United States 
                Code, and at the request of the Secretary of State.''.

SEC. 1204. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT TO STABILIZATION ACTIVITIES IN 
              THE NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence 
of the Secretary of State and in consultation with the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International Development and the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget, designate a foreign area under 
subsection (b), provide support for the stabilization activities of 
other Federal agencies under subsection (c), or carry out transitional 
stabilization activities under subsection (d).
    (b) Designation of Foreign Areas.--Amounts authorized to be 
provided pursuant to this section shall be available only for 
stabilization activities--
            (1) in a foreign area designated by the Secretary of 
        Defense as being necessary to address conflict and instability; 
        and
            (2) that are in the national security interest of the 
        United States.
    (c) Support to Other Agencies.--The Secretary of Defense may 
provide logistic support, supplies, and services and training on a 
reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis to the Department of State, the 
United States Agency for International Development, or other Federal 
agencies to support stabilization in foreign areas designated under 
subsection (b).
    (d) Transitional Stabilization Activities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out 
        transitional stabilization activities if such activities are in 
        the national security interest of the United States.
            (2) Complementary activities.--Transitional stabilization 
        activities carried out under this section should complement, 
        and should not duplicate, any other form of social or economic 
        assistance which may be provided to the country concerned by 
        any other department or agency of the United States.
    (e) Waiver Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the 
concurrence of the Secretary of State, waive sections 40 and 40A of the 
Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780 and 2785) if the Secretary of 
Defense determines that such provision of law would prohibit, restrict, 
delay, or otherwise limit the provision of assistance under this 
section and a notice of and justification for such waiver is submitted 
to the appropriate committees of Congress.
    (f) Authority in Addition to Other Authorities.--The authority to 
provide assistance under this section is in addition to any other 
authority to provide assistance to foreign nations.
    (g) Use of Funds.--
            (1) Source of funds.--Amounts for activities carried out 
        under this section in a fiscal year shall be derived only from 
        amounts authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year for 
        the Department of Defense for Operation and Maintenance, 
        Defense-wide.
            (2) Limitation.--Not more than $25,000,000 in each fiscal 
        year is authorized to be used to provide non-reimbursable 
        logistic support, supplies, and services or training under 
        subsection (c) or to carry out transitional stabilization 
        activities under subsection (d) during the period in which this 
        section is in effect.
    (h) Expiration.--The authority provided under this section may not 
be exercised after September 30, 2021. Any program directed under this 
section before that date may be completed, but only using funds 
available for fiscal years 2020 through 2021.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Logistic support, supplies, and services.--The term 
        ``logistic support, supplies, and services'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 2350(1) of title 10, United States 
        Code.
            (3) Transitional stabilization activities.--The term 
        ``transitional stabilization activities'' means transitional 
        activities, excluding humanitarian assistance, conducted to 
        create conditions where legitimate local authorities and 
        systems can peaceably manage conflict and prevent a resurgence 
        of violence, including--
                    (A) providing, maintaining, or re-establishing 
                security and basic public order;
                    (B) providing or restoring essential basic services 
                for the immediate needs of the population; and
                    (C) repairing, restoring, and protecting critical 
                infrastructure.

SEC. 1205. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR SUPPORT OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS FOR 
              IRREGULAR WARFARE.

     Section 1202(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1639) is amended by 
striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2024''.

SEC. 1206. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTAIN 
              COALITION NATIONS FOR SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UNITED STATES 
              MILITARY OPERATIONS.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
Stat. 393), as most recently amended by section 1225 of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232), is further amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) 
by striking ``October 1, 2018, and ending on December 31, 2019'' and 
inserting ``October 1, 2019, and ending on December 31, 2020''.
    (b) Limitation on Amounts Available.--Subsection (d)(1) of such 
section is amended by striking ``October 1, 2018, and ending on 
December 31, 2019, may not exceed $350,000,000'' and inserting 
``October 1, 2019, and ending on December 31, 2020, may not exceed 
$450,000,000''.

SEC. 1207. EXTENSION OF AFGHAN SPECIAL IMMIGRANT PROGRAM.

    Section 602(b)(3)(F) of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 
U.S.C. 1101 note) is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``2015, 2016, and 2017'' 
        and inserting ``2015 through 2020'';
            (2) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
        ``18,500'' and inserting ``22,500'';
            (3) in clause (i), by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and 
        inserting ``December 31, 2021''; and
            (4) in clause (ii), by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and 
        inserting ``December 31, 2021''.

SEC. 1208. NATO SPECIAL OPERATIONS HEADQUARTERS.

    Section 1244 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2541), as most recently amended 
by section 1280 of the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1080), is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``each of the fiscal 
        years 2013 through 2020'' and inserting ``each of the fiscal 
        years 2013 through 2025'';
            (2) by striking section (c); and
            (3) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).

SEC. 1209. AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 for the Afghanistan Security 
Forces Fund, as established by section 1513 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 
428), as most recently amended by section 1223(b) of the John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 
115-232), in the amount of $4,803,978,000.
    (b) Continuation of Prior Authorities and Notice and Reporting 
Requirements.--Funds available to the Department of Defense for the 
Afghanistan Security Forces Fund for fiscal year 2020 shall be subject 
to the conditions contained in subsections (b) through (f) of such 
section 1513.
    (c) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (b)(1) of such section 1513 is 
        amended by striking ``security forces of the Ministry of 
        Defense and the Ministry of the Interior of the Government of 
        the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan'' and inserting ``security 
        forces of Afghanistan''.
            (2) Type of assistance.--Subsection (b)(2) of such section 
        1513 is amended by inserting ``(including program and security 
        assistance management support)'' after ``services''.
    (d) Equipment Disposition.--
            (1) Acceptance of certain equipment.--Subject to paragraph 
        (2), the Secretary of Defense may accept equipment that is 
        procured using amounts in the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund 
        authorized under this Act and is intended for transfer to the 
        security forces of Afghanistan, but is not accepted by such 
        security forces.
            (2) Conditions on acceptance of equipment.--Before 
        accepting any equipment under the authority provided by 
        paragraph (1), the Commander of United States forces in 
        Afghanistan shall make a determination that the equipment was 
        procured for the purpose of meeting requirements of the 
        security forces of Afghanistan, as agreed to by both the 
        Government of Afghanistan and the United States, but is no 
        longer required by such security forces or was damaged before 
        transfer to such security forces.
            (3) Elements of determination.--In making a determination 
        under paragraph (2) regarding equipment, the Commander of 
        United States forces in Afghanistan shall consider alternatives 
        to Secretary of Defense acceptance of the equipment. An 
        explanation of each determination, including the basis for the 
        determination and the alternatives considered, shall be 
        included in the relevant quarterly report required under 
        paragraph (5).
            (4) Treatment as department of defense stocks.--Equipment 
        accepted under the authority provided by paragraph (1) may be 
        treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon 
        notification to the congressional defense committees of such 
        treatment.
            (5) Quarterly reports on equipment disposition.--Not later 
        than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and 
        every 90-day period thereafter during which the authority 
        provided by paragraph (1) is exercised, the Secretary of 
        Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
        report describing the equipment accepted under this subsection, 
        under section 1531(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 938; 10 
        U.S.C. 2302 note), and under section 1532(b) of the Carl Levin 
        and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3612) 
        during the period covered by the report. Each report shall 
        include a list of all equipment that was accepted during the 
        period covered by the report and treated as stocks of the 
        Department, and copies of the determinations made under 
        paragraph (2), as required by paragraph (3).

SEC. 1210. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES 
              OF THE OFFICE OF SECURITY COOPERATION IN IRAQ.

    Subsections (c), (d), and (f)(1) of section 1215 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 113 note), as 
most recently amended by section 1235 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), are each 
amended by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
2020''.

SEC. 1211. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO THE VETTED 
              SYRIAN OPPOSITION.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1209 of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3541), as most recently 
amended by section 1231 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further amended by striking 
``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.
    (b) Reprogramming Requirement.--Subsection (f)(1) of such section 
1209, as most recently amended by section 1231 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2019'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2021''.

SEC. 1212. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE 
              ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1236 of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3559), as most recently 
amended by section 1233 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), is further amended by striking 
``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.
    (b) Funding.--Subsection (g) of such section 1236, as most recently 
so amended, is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2020''; and
            (2) by striking ``$850,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$745,000,000''.

SEC. 1213. PROVISION OF GOODS AND SERVICES AT KWAJALEIN ATOLL, REPUBLIC 
              OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 767 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7596. Goods and services at Kwajalein Atoll
    ``(a) Authority.--(1) Subject to the requirements of this section, 
the Secretary of the Army may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
State, provide goods and services, including inter-atoll 
transportation, to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
Islands and to other eligible patrons, as determined by the Secretary, 
at Kwajalein Atoll.
    ``(2) The Secretary may not provide goods or services under this 
section if doing so would be inconsistent, as determined by the 
Secretary of State, with the Compact of Free Association between the 
Government of the United States of America and the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands or any subsidiary agreement or 
implementing arrangement.
    ``(b) Reimbursement.--(1) The Secretary of the Army may collect 
reimbursement from the Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
Islands and eligible patrons for the provision of goods and services 
under subsection (a).
    ``(2) Any amount collected for goods or services under this 
subsection shall not be greater than the total amount of the actual 
costs to the United States of providing the goods or services.
    ``(c) Necessary Expenses.--Amounts appropriated to the Department 
of the Army may be used for all necessary expenses associated with 
providing goods and services under this section.
    ``(d) Regulations.--The Secretary of the Army shall issue 
regulations to carry out this section.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``7596. Goods and services at Kwajalein Atoll.''.

SEC. 1214. AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR RI'KATAK GUEST STUDENT 
              PROGRAM AT UNITED STATES ARMY GARRISON-KWAJALEIN ATOLL.

    (a) Authority for Ri'katak Guest Student Program.--The Secretary of 
the Army, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, is authorized 
to conduct an assistance program to educate up to five local national 
students per grade, per academic year, on a space-available basis at 
the contractor-operated schools on United States Army Garrison-
Kwajalein Atoll. Such program shall be known as the ``Ri'katak Guest 
Student Program''.
    (b) Sole Source of Funds.--Amounts for the program carried out 
pursuant to subsection (a) may be derived only from amounts authorized 
to be appropriated for Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army 
and available for the operation and maintenance of the activities of 
the United States Army Garrison-Kwajalein Atoll.
    (c) Student Assistance.--Assistance that may be provided to 
students participating in the program carried out pursuant to 
subsection (a) includes the following:
            (1) Classroom instruction.
            (2) Extracurricular activities.
            (3) Student meals.
            (4) Transportation.

SEC. 1215. TWO-YEAR EXTENSION OF PROGRAM AUTHORITY FOR THE GLOBAL 
              SECURITY CONTINGENCY FUND.

    Section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (i)(1), by striking ``September 30, 
        2019'' and inserting ``September 30, 2021''; and
            (2) in subsection (o)--
                    (A) by striking ``September 30, 2019'' and 
                inserting ``September 30, 2021''; and
                    (B) by striking ``through 2019'' and inserting 
                ``through 2021''.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

SEC. 1301. AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COOPERATIVE 
              THREAT REDUCTION PROGRAM.

    (a) Authority.--Section 1321(a) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(50 U.S.C. 3711(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(7) Subject to subsection (c), contribute funds to a 
        program of a foreign government or international organization 
        intended to accomplish goals described in paragraphs (1) 
        through (6).''.
    (b) Scope of Authority.--Section 1321(c) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 
3711(c)) is amended by striking ``and services'' and all that follows 
and inserting ``services, and other support, but does not include 
authority to provide funds directly to a country receiving assistance 
under the Program.''.

SEC. 1302. USE OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COOPERATIVE 
              THREAT REDUCTION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 1325 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(50 U.S.C. 3715) is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by inserting ``promote the goals of 
        the'' before ``department''; and
            (2) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``agreements with any person'' and 
                inserting the following: ``agreements with--
                    ``(A) any person'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), as designated by 
                subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, by striking the 
                period and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(B) a foreign government or international 
                organization under which the Department of Defense may 
                contribute to a program of such foreign government or 
                international organization that is intended to 
                accomplish goals described in section 1321(a).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``subsection (a)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (a)(1)(A)'';
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``subsection (a)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (a)(1)(A)'';
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by striking ``funds contributed'' and 
                        inserting ``or contributing funds''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or 
                        identifying the foreign government or 
                        international organization who received the 
                        contribution, as the case may be'' before the 
                        period; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``subsection 
                (a)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(1)(A)''; and
            (4) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``subsection (a)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (a)(1)(A)''.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

SEC. 1401. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds in the amount of $1,426,211,000.

SEC. 1402. JOINT URGENT OPERATIONAL NEEDS FUND.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the Joint Urgent Operational Needs Fund in the amount of 
$99,200,000.

SEC. 1403. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2020 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and 
Munitions Destruction, Defense, in the amount of $985,499,000, of 
which--
            (1) $107,351,000 is for Operation and Maintenance;
            (2) $875,930,000 is for Research, Development, Test, and 
        Evaluation; and
            (3) $2,218,000 is for Procurement.
    (b) Use.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
(a) are authorized for--
            (1) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions 
        in accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense 
        Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
            (2) the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the 
        United States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.

SEC. 1404. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
in the amount of $799,402,000.

SEC. 1405. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, in the amount of $363,499,000, of which--
            (1) $360,201,000 is for Operation and Maintenance;
            (2) $2,965,000 is for Research, Development, Test and 
        Evaluation; and
            (3) $333,000 is for Procurement.

SEC. 1406. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Defense Health Program, in the amount of $32,998,687,000, 
of which--
            (1) $31,812,090,000 is for Operation and Maintenance;
            (2) $732,273,000 is for Research, Development, Test, and 
        Evaluation; and
            (3) $454,324,000 is for Procurement.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

SEC. 1411. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOINT DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY 
              DEMONSTRATION FUND FOR CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH 
              CARE CENTER, ILLINOIS.

    (a) Authority for Transfer of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated for section 1406 and available for the Defense Health 
Program for operation and maintenance, $127,000,000 may be transferred 
by the Secretary of Defense to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund 
established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2571). For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such section 1704, 
any funds so transferred shall be treated as amounts authorized and 
appropriated specifically for the purpose of such a transfer.
    (b) Use of Transferred Funds.--For the purposes of subsection (b) 
of such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred 
under subsection (a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility 
under an operational agreement covered by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).

SEC. 1412. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT 
              HOME.

    There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $64,300,000 
for the operation of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

SEC. 1501. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to authorize appropriations for the 
Department of Defense for fiscal year 2020 to provide additional funds 
for overseas contingency operations being carried out by the Armed 
Forces.

SEC. 1502. ARMY PROCUREMENT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for procurement for the Army in amounts as follows:
            (1) For aircraft procurement, $381,541,000.
            (2) For missile procurement, $4,645,755,000.
            (3) For weapons and tracked combat vehicles, $353,454,000.
            (4) For ammunition procurement, $2,843,230,000.
            (5) For other procurement, $1,139,650,000.

SEC. 1503. NAVY AND MARINE CORPS PROCUREMENT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for procurement for the Navy and Marine Corps in amounts as follows:
            (1) For aircraft procurement, Navy, $119,045,000.
            (2) For weapons procurement, Navy, $4,332,710,000.
            (3) For ammunition procurement, Navy and Marine Corps, 
        $1,186,128,000.
            (4) For other procurement, Navy, $357,600,000.
            (5) For procurement, Marine Corps, $20,589,000.

SEC. 1504. AIR FORCE PROCUREMENT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for procurement for the Air Force in amounts as follows:
            (1) For aircraft procurement, $309,110,000.
            (2) For missile procurement, $201,671,000.
            (3) For ammunition procurement, $2,607,394,000.
            (4) For other procurement, $4,193,098,000.

SEC. 1505. DEFENSE-WIDE ACTIVITIES PROCUREMENT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the procurement account for Defense-wide activities in the amount 
of $452,047,000.

SEC. 1506. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation as follows:
            (1) For the Army, $204,124,000.
            (2) For the Navy, $164,410,000.
            (3) For the Air Force, $450,248,000.
            (4) For Defense-wide activities, $827,950,000.

SEC. 1507. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for operation and maintenance, in amounts as follows:
            (1) For the Army, $37,987,549,000.
            (2) For the Navy, $31,734,683,000.
            (3) For the Marine Corps, $5,123,470,000.
            (4) For the Air Force, $33,028,712,000.
            (5) For Defense-wide activities, $8,448,612,000.
            (6) For the Army Reserve, $1,986,599,000.
            (7) For the Navy Reserve, $886,868,000.
            (8) For the Marine Corps Reserve, $239,693,000.
            (9) For the Air Force Reserve, $1,195,131,000.
            (10) For the Army National Guard, $4,376,939,000.
            (11) For the Air National Guard, $3,291,982,000.
            (12) For the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund, 
        $4,803,978,000.
            (13) Counter-Islamic State of Iraq and Syria Train and 
        Equip Fund, $1,045,000,000.

SEC. 1508. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
to the Department of Defense for military personnel accounts in the 
total amount of $4,485,808,000.

SEC. 1509. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2020 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for Defense Working 
Capital Funds in the amount of $20,100,000.

SEC. 1510. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Defense Health Program in the amount of $347,746,000 for 
operation and maintenance.

SEC. 1511. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide in 
the amount of $163,596,000.

SEC. 1512. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2020 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense in the amount of $24,254,000.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

SEC. 1601. DEMONSTRATION OF BACKUP AND COMPLEMENTARY POSITIONING, 
              NAVIGATION, AND TIMING CAPABILITIES OF GLOBAL POSITIONING 
              SYSTEM.

    Effective on June 1, 2019, section 1606 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1725) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``the date that is 18 
        months after the date of the enactment of this Act'' and 
        inserting ``December 31, 2020''; and
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``18 months after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act'' and inserting ``December 
        31, 2020''.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

SEC. 1611. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL ALLOWANCES AND BENEFITS FOR 
              DEFENSE CLANDESTINE SERVICE EMPLOYEES.

    Section 1603 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Additional Allowances and Benefits for Employees of the 
Defense Clandestine Service.--In addition to the authority to provide 
compensation under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may provide 
an employee in a defense intelligence position who is assigned to the 
Defense Clandestine Service allowances and benefits under paragraph (1) 
of section 9904 of title 5 without regard to the limitations in that 
section--
            ``(1) that the employee be assigned to activities outside 
        the United States; or
            ``(2) that the activities to which the employee is assigned 
        be in support of Department of Defense activities abroad.''.

SEC. 1612. MODIFICATION OF INTEGRATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE 
              CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 426 of title 10, United States Code, is hereby 
repealed.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of subchapter I of chapter 21 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 426.

SEC. 1613. RENAMING THE UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR INTELLIGENCE TO 
              UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY.

    (a) In General.--Section 137 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the heading, by inserting ``and Security'' after 
        ``Intelligence''; and
            (2) in subsections (a), (b), and (c), by striking ``Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Intelligence'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and 
        Security''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Title 5.--Sections 5314 and 5315 of title 5, United 
        States Code, are amended by striking ``Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Intelligence'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security''.
            (2) Title 10.--Title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
        striking ``Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Intelligence and Security'' in the following provisions:
                    (A) The table of sections at the beginning of 
                chapter 4.
                    (B) Section 131(b)(3)(F).
                    (C) Section 137a(c)(6).
                    (D) Section 139a(d)(6).
                    (E) Section 139b(c)(2)(E).
                    (F) Section 181(d)(1)(B).
                    (G) Section 393(b)(2)(C).
                    (H) Section 426.
                    (I) Section 430.
    (c) Other References in Law.--Any reference to the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Intelligence in a provision of law in effect on the date 
of the enactment of this Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security.

SEC. 1614. EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE 
              AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 21 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 423 the following 
new section:
``Sec. 423a. Expenditure of funds by the Secretary of Defense
    ``(a) In General.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the 
Secretary of Defense may expend covered funds for objects of a 
confidential, extraordinary, or emergency nature without regard to the 
provisions of law relating to the expenditure of Government funds.
    ``(b) Limitation on Amount.--The Secretary of Defense may not 
expend more than five percent of covered funds made available in a 
fiscal year for objects described in subsection (a) unless--
            ``(1) the Secretary notifies the congressional defense 
        committees and the congressional intelligence committees of the 
        intent to expend the amounts; and
            ``(2) 30 days have elapsed from the date on which the 
        Secretary provides the notice described in paragraph (1).
    ``(c) Certification.--For each expenditure of funds under this 
section, the Secretary shall certify that such expenditure was made for 
an object of a confidential, extraordinary, or emergency nature.
    ``(d) Report.--Not later than December 31 of each year, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees and the congressional intelligence committees a report on 
expenditures made under this section during the preceding fiscal year.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `congressional intelligence committees' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 3 of the National 
        Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
            ``(2) The term `covered funds' means amounts made available 
        to the Secretary of Defense for the Military Intelligence 
        Program for intelligence and counterintelligence activities.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 423 the following new item:

``423a. Expenditure of funds by the Secretary of Defense.''.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

SEC. 1621. AUTHORITY TO USE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUNDS FOR CYBER 
              OPERATIONS-PECULIAR CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 134 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2243 the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2243a. Authority to use operation and maintenance funds for 
              cyber operations-peculiar capability development projects
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense and each Secretary 
concerned may use $3,000,000 of amounts authorized to be appropriated 
for operation and maintenance in each fiscal year to carry out cyber 
operations-peculiar capability development projects.
    ``(b) Relationship to Other Laws.--The authority in subsection (a) 
may be used without regard to any provision of law establishing a limit 
on the unit cost of an investment item that may be purchased with funds 
made available for operation and maintenance.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2243 the following new item:

``2243a. Authority to use operation and maintenance funds for cyber 
                            operations-peculiar capability development 
                            projects.''.

SEC. 1622. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY FOR ACCESS AND INFORMATION RELATING 
              TO CYBERATTACKS ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OPERATIONALLY 
              CRITICAL CONTRACTORS.

    Section 391(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(A) include mechanisms for Department personnel--
                            ``(i) if requested by an operationally 
                        critical contractor, to assist the contractor 
                        in detecting and mitigating penetrations; or
                            ``(ii) at the request of the Department, to 
                        obtain access to equipment or information of an 
                        operationally critical contractor necessary to 
                        conduct a forensic analysis, in addition to any 
                        analysis conducted by the contractor; and''; 
                        and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by striking ``to determine whether 
                        information'' and inserting the following: ``to 
                        determine whether--
                            ``(i) information'';
                            (ii) in clause (i), as so designated--
                                    (I) by inserting ``or compromised 
                                on'' after ``exfiltrated from''; and
                                    (II) by striking the period at the 
                                end and inserting ``or compromised; 
                                or''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new clause:
                            ``(ii) the ability of the contractor to 
                        provide operationally critical support has been 
                        affected and, if so, how and to what extent it 
                        has been affected.'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``, so as to minimize 
        delays in or any curtailing of the Department's cyber response 
        and defensive actions'' after ``specific person''; and
            (3) in paragraph (5)(C), by inserting ``or 
        counterintelligence activities'' after ``investigations''.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 1631. ADDITIONAL PROTECTION OF CERTAIN FACILITIES AND ASSETS FROM 
              UNMANNED AIRCRAFT THREATS.

    Section 130i of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or a temporarily 
        covered facility or asset'' after ``a covered facility or 
        asset'';
            (2) by striking subsection (i);
            (3) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection (i); and
            (4) in subsection (i) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and 
                (6) as paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (9), respectively;
                    (B) in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (4) (as so 
                redesignated)--
                            (i) in clause (viii), by striking ``; or'' 
                        and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) in clause (ix), by striking the period 
                        and inserting a semicolon; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new clauses:
                            ``(x) command and control of armed forces 
                        by commanders of unified and specified 
                        combatant commands to perform military 
                        operations directed by the Secretary and 
                        approved by the President in support of a 
                        covered contingency operation;
                            ``(xi) deployment and sustainment of armed 
                        forces;
                            ``(xii) organizing, training, equipping, 
                        and other functions in preparation to deploy 
                        and conduct military operations in support of a 
                        covered contingency operation;
                            ``(xiii) assistance in support of 
                        Department of Justice activities during an 
                        emergency situation involving a weapon of mass 
                        destruction pursuant to section 282 of this 
                        title;
                            ``(xiv) transportation, storage, treatment, 
                        and disposal of nondefense toxic and hazardous 
                        materials by the Department pursuant to section 
                        2692 of this title;
                            ``(xv) production, storage, transportation, 
                        or decommissioning of chemical or biological 
                        materials by the Department;
                            ``(xvi) assistance to Federal, State, or 
                        local officials in responding to threats 
                        involving nuclear, radiological, biological, or 
                        chemical weapons, or high-yield explosives, or 
                        related materials or technologies, including 
                        assistance in identifying, neutralizing, 
                        dismantling, and disposing of nuclear, 
                        radiological, biological, or chemical weapons, 
                        or high-yield explosives, and related materials 
                        and technologies pursuant to section 1414(a) of 
                        the Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction 
                        Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 2314(a));
                            ``(xvii) detainee operations pursuant to 
                        lawful authority, which may include an 
                        authorization for the use of military force or 
                        a declaration of war; and
                            ``(xviii) physical protection and personal 
                        security of senior leaders of the Department of 
                        Defense in accordance with section 714 of this 
                        title.'';
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(3) The term `covered contingency operation' means a 
        contingency operation as defined in subparagraph (A) of section 
        101(a)(13) of this title.''; and
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (6) (as so 
                redesignated) the following new paragraphs:
            ``(7) The terms `specified combatant command' and `unified 
        combatant command' have the meaning given the terms in section 
        161 of this title.
            ``(8) The term `temporarily covered facility or asset' 
        means a facility or asset determined by the Secretary of 
        Defense to be temporarily at high risk of loss due to a 
        specific, highly significant vulnerability or due to specific 
        indications that such a facility or asset is a target for 
        hostile action.''.

                        TITLE XVII--SPACE FORCE

                 Subtitle A--United States Space Force

SEC. 1701. ESTABLISHMENT OF UNITED STATES SPACE FORCE IN THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF THE AIR FORCE.

    Part I of subtitle D of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new chapter:

                     ``CHAPTER 909--THE SPACE FORCE

``Sec.
``9091. Establishment of the Space Force.
``9092. The Space Staff: function; composition.
``9093. The Space Staff: general duties.
``9094. Chief of Staff of the Space Force.
``9095. Vice Chief of Staff of the Space Force.
``Sec. 9091. Establishment of the Space Force
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established a United States Space 
Force as an armed force within the Department of the Air Force.
    ``(b) Functions.--(1) The Space Force shall be organized, trained, 
and equipped--
            ``(A) to provide for freedom of operations in, from, and to 
        the space domain for the United States;
            ``(B) to provide independent military options for joint and 
        national leadership; and
            ``(C) to enable the lethality and effectiveness of the 
        joint force.
    ``(2) The Space Force includes both combat and combat-support 
functions to enable prompt and sustained offensive and defensive space 
operations and joint operations in all domains.
    ``(c) Composition.--The Space Force consists of--
            ``(1) the Regular Space Force and associated reserve 
        components;
            ``(2) all persons appointed or enlisted in, or conscripted 
        into, the Space Force, including those not assigned to units, 
        necessary to form the basis for a complete and immediate 
        mobilization for the national defense in the event of a 
        national emergency; and
            ``(3) all Space Force units and other Space Force 
        organizations, including installations and supporting and 
        auxiliary combat, training, administrative, and logistic 
        elements.
    ``(d) Duties.--Except as otherwise specifically prescribed by law, 
the Space Force shall be organized in such manner, and the members of 
the Space Force shall perform such duties and have such titles, as the 
Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe.
``Sec. 9092. The Space Staff: function; composition
    ``(a) Function.--There is in the executive part of the Department 
of the Air Force a Space Staff to assist the Secretary of the Air Force 
in carrying out the responsibilities of the Secretary.
    ``(b) Composition.--The Space Staff is composed of the following:
            ``(1) The Chief of Staff of the Space Force.
            ``(2) The Vice Chief of Staff of the Space Force.
            ``(3) Such other offices and officials as may be 
        established by law or as the Secretary of the Air Force may 
        establish or designate.
            ``(4) Other members of the Air Force and Space Force 
        assigned or detailed to the Space Staff.
            ``(5) Civilian employees in the Department of the Air Force 
        assigned or detailed to the Space Staff.
    ``(c) Organization.--Except as otherwise specifically prescribed by 
law, the Space Staff shall be organized in such manner, and the members 
of the Space Staff shall perform such duties and have such titles, as 
the Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe.
``Sec. 9093. The Space Staff: general duties
    ``(a) Professional Assistance.--The Space Staff shall furnish 
professional assistance to the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of 
Staff of the Space Force, and other personnel of the Office of the 
Secretary of the Air Force or the Space Staff.
    ``(b) Authorities.--Under the authority, direction, and control of 
the Secretary of the Air Force, the Space Staff shall--
            ``(1) subject to subsections (c) and (d) of section 9014 of 
        this title, prepare for such employment of the Space Force, and 
        for such recruiting, organizing, supplying, equipping 
        (including research and development), training, servicing, 
        mobilizing, demobilizing, administering, and maintaining of the 
        Space Force, as will assist in the execution of any power, 
        duty, or function of the Secretary of the Air Force or the 
        Chief of Staff of the Space Force;
            ``(2) investigate and report upon the efficiency of the 
        Space Force and its preparation to support military operations 
        by commanders of the combatant commands;
            ``(3) prepare detailed instructions for the execution of 
        approved plans and supervise the execution of those plans and 
        instructions;
            ``(4) as directed by the Secretary of the Air Force or the 
        Chief Staff of the Space Force, coordinate the action of 
        organizations of the Space Force; and
            ``(5) perform such other duties, not otherwise assigned by 
        law, as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force.
``Sec. 9094. Chief of Staff of the Space Force
    ``(a) Appointment.--(1) There is a Chief of Staff of the Space 
Force, appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent 
of the Senate, from the general officers of the Space Force. The Chief 
of Staff shall serve at the pleasure of the President.
    ``(2) The Chief of Staff shall be appointed for a term of four 
years. In time of war or during a national emergency declared by 
Congress, the Chief of Staff may be reappointed for a term of not more 
than four years.
    ``(3) The President may appoint an officer as Chief of Staff only 
if--
            ``(A) the officer has had significant experience in joint 
        duty assignments; and
            ``(B) such experience includes at least one full tour of 
        duty in a joint duty assignment (as defined in section 664(d) 
        of this title) as a general officer.
    ``(4) The President may waive paragraph (3) in the case of an 
officer if the President determines such action is necessary in the 
national interest.
    ``(b) Grade.--The Chief of Staff of the Space Force, while so 
serving, has the grade of general without vacating the permanent grade 
of the officer.
    ``(c) Relationship to the Secretary of the Air Force.--Except as 
otherwise prescribed by law and subject to section 9013(f) of this 
title, the Chief of Staff of the Space Force performs the duties of 
such position under the authority, direction, and control of the 
Secretary of the Air Force and is directly responsible to the 
Secretary.
    ``(d) Duties.--Subject to the authority, direction, and control of 
the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff of the Space Force 
shall--
            ``(1) preside over the Space Staff;
            ``(2) transmit the plans and recommendations of the Space 
        Staff to the Secretary of the Air Force and advise the 
        Secretary with regard to such plans and recommendations;
            ``(3) after approval of the plans or recommendations of the 
        Space Staff by the Secretary of the Air Force, act as the agent 
        of the Secretary in carrying them into effect;
            ``(4) exercise supervision, consistent with the authority 
        assigned to commanders of unified or specified combatant 
        commands under chapter 6 of this title, over such of the 
        members and organizations of the Space Force and the Air Force 
        as the Secretary of the Air Force determines;
            ``(5) perform the duties prescribed for the Chief of Staff 
        by sections 171 and 2547 of this title and other provisions of 
        law; and
            ``(6) perform such other military duties, not otherwise 
        assigned by law, as are assigned to the Chief of Staff by the 
        President, the Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary of the 
        Air Force.
    ``(e) Joint Chiefs of Staff.--(1) The Chief of Staff of the Space 
Force shall also perform the duties prescribed for the Chief of Staff 
as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under section 151 of this 
title.
    ``(2) To the extent that such action does not impair the 
independence of the Chief of Staff in the performance of the duties of 
the Chief of Staff as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Chief 
of Staff shall inform the Secretary of the Air Force regarding military 
advice rendered by members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on matters 
affecting the Department of the Air Force.
    ``(3) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the 
Secretary of Defense, the Chief of Staff shall keep the Secretary of 
the Air Force fully informed of significant military operations 
affecting the duties and responsibilities of the Secretary of the Air 
Force.
``Sec. 9095. Vice Chief of Staff of the Space Force
    ``(a) Appointment.--There is a Vice Chief of Staff of the Space 
Force, appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent 
of the Senate, from the general officers of the Space Force.
    ``(b) Grade.--The Vice Chief of Staff of the Space Force, while so 
serving, has the grade of general without vacating the permanent grade 
of the officer so serving.
    ``(c) Duties.--The Vice Chief of Staff has such authority and 
duties with respect to the Space Force as the Chief of Staff of the 
Space Force, with the approval of the Secretary of the Air Force, may 
delegate to or prescribe for the Vice Chief of Staff. Orders issued by 
the Vice Chief of Staff in performing such duties have the same effect 
as those issued by the Chief of Staff.
    ``(d) Vacancy in Office of Chief of Staff.--When there is a vacancy 
in the office of Chief of Staff of the Space Force or during the 
absence or disability of the Chief of Staff--
            ``(1) the Vice Chief of Staff shall perform the duties of 
        the Chief of Staff until a successor is appointed or the 
        absence or disability ceases; or
            ``(2) if there is a vacancy in the office of the Vice Chief 
        of Staff or the Vice Chief of Staff is absent or disabled, 
        unless the President directs otherwise, the most senior officer 
        of the Space Force in the Space Staff who is not absent or 
        disabled and who is not restricted in performance of duty shall 
        perform the duties of the Chief of Staff until a successor to 
        the Chief of Staff or the Vice Chief of Staff is appointed or 
        until the absence or disability of the Chief of Staff or Vice 
        Chief of Staff ceases, whichever occurs first.''.

SEC. 1702. UNDER SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE FOR SPACE.

    (a) Establishment.--Section 9015 of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``Under Secretary'' and 
        inserting ``Under Secretaries'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``is an Under Secretary 
        of the Air Force'' and inserting ``are two Under Secretaries of 
        the Air Force''; and
            (3) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following 
        new subsections:
    ``(b)(1) One of the Under Secretaries shall be the Under Secretary 
of the Air Force.
    ``(2) The Under Secretary of the Air Force shall be the first 
assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force and shall assist the 
Secretary in the performance of the duties of the Secretary and shall 
act for, and exercise the powers of, the Secretary when the Secretary 
dies, resigns, or is otherwise unable to perform the functions and 
duties of the office.
    ``(c)(1) One of the Under Secretaries shall be the Under Secretary 
of the Air Force for Space, who shall also be known as the Under 
Secretary for Space.
    ``(2) The Under Secretary for Space shall be responsible for the 
overall supervision of space matters.
    ``(d) In addition to the duties and powers described in subsections 
(b) and (c), the Under Secretaries shall perform such duties and 
exercise such powers as the Secretary of the Air Force may 
prescribe.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 903 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 9015 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``9015. Under Secretaries of the Air Force.''.
            (2) Secretary of the air force.--Section 9013(f) of such 
        title is amended--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``Under 
                Secretary'' and inserting ``Under Secretaries''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``the Under 
                Secretary'' and inserting ``either Under Secretary''.
            (3) Office of the secretary of the air force.--Section 
        9014(b)(1) of such title is amended by striking ``Under 
        Secretary'' and inserting ``Under Secretaries''.
            (4) Successor to duties.--Section 9017 of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as 
                paragraphs (3) through (5), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(2) The Under Secretary of the Air Force for Space.''.

SEC. 1703. INCLUSION OF THE SPACE FORCE ON THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF 
              AND JOINT STAFF.

    (a) Membership of the Chief of Staff of the Space Force on the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff.--Section 151(a) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(7) The Chief of Staff of the Space Force.''.
    (b) Appointment of Chairman.--Section 152(b)(1)(B) of such title is 
amended by striking ``or the Commandant of the Marine Corps'' and 
inserting ``the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or the Chief of Staff 
of the Space Force''.
    (c) Inclusion of the Space Force on the Joint Staff.--Section 
155(a)(2)(C) of such title is amended by inserting ``and the Space 
Force'' after ``the Air Force''.

SEC. 1704. CIVILIAN PERSONNEL SUPPORTING THE SPACE FORCE.

    (a) Organization of Chapter.--
            (1) Chapter 947.--Chapter 947 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking the table of sections and inserting 
                the following:

``Subchapter                                                       Sec.
``I. General Civilian Personnel Matters.....................       9371
``II. Space Force Civilian Personnel Matters................       9375

           ``SUBCHAPTER I--GENERAL CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

``Sec.
``9371. Air University: civilian faculty members.
``9372. Production of supplies and munitions: hours and pay of laborers 
                            and mechanics.
``9373. Civilian special agents of the Office of Special 
                            Investigations: authority to execute 
                            warrants and make arrests.'';
                and
                    (B) by redesignating sections 9375 and 9377 as 
                sections 9372 and 9373, respectively.
            (2) Chapter 949.--Chapter 949 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in the table of sections, by striking the item 
                relating to section 9381 and inserting the following 
                new item:

``9391. Fatality reviews.'';
                and
                    (B) by redesignating section 9381 as section 9391.
    (b) Civilian Personnel Supporting the Space Force.--Chapter 947 of 
title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (a) of this 
section, is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subchapter:

        ``SUBCHAPTER II--SPACE FORCE CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

``Sec.
``9375. Definitions and implementation.
``9376. Space Force civilian personnel: general authority to establish 
                            excepted positions, appoint personnel, and 
                            fix rates of pay.
``9377. Basic pay.
``9378. Additional compensation, allowances, and incentives.
``9379. Limitation on certain payments.
``9380. Benefits for certain employees assigned outside the United 
                            States.
``9381. Space Force Senior Executive Service.
``9382. Space Force Senior Level positions.
``9383. Time-limited appointments.
``9384. Termination of Space Force employees.
``9385. Reductions and other adjustments in force.
``9386. Postemployment assistance: certain terminated Space Force 
                            employees.
``9387. Appointment of Space Force employees to competitive service 
                            positions in the Department of Defense.
``9388. Merit system principles; civil service protections; right of 
                            appeal.
``Sec. 9375. Definitions and implementation
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this subchapter:
            ``(1) The term `competitive service' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 2102 of title 5.
            ``(2) The term `excepted service' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 2103 of title 5.
            ``(3) The term `preference eligible' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 2108(3) of title 5.
            ``(4) The term `Senior Executive Service position' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 3132(a)(2) of title 5.
            ``(5) The term `Space Force position' means a position as a 
        civilian employee of the Department of the Air Force supporting 
        the Space Force or United States Space Command, as determined 
        by the Secretary of Defense.
    ``(b) Implementation.--The Secretary of Defense may implement this 
subchapter without regard to any provision of chapter 71 of title 5.
``Sec. 9376. Space Force civilian personnel: general authority to 
              establish excepted positions, appoint personnel, and fix 
              rates of pay
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may--
            ``(1) establish, as positions in the excepted service, such 
        positions in the Department of the Air Force as the Secretary 
        of Defense determines necessary to support the Space Force, 
        including--
                    ``(A) Space Force Senior Level positions designated 
                under section 9382 of this title; and
                    ``(B) positions in the Space Force Senior Executive 
                Service;
            ``(2) after taking into consideration the availability of 
        preference eligibles for appointment to those positions (except 
        with respect to positions referred to in subparagraphs (A) and 
        (B) of paragraph (1)), appoint individuals to those positions; 
        and
            ``(3) fix the compensation of such individuals for service 
        in those positions.
    ``(b) Construction With Other Laws.--The authority of the Secretary 
of Defense under subsection (a) applies without regard to the 
provisions of any other law relating to the appointment, number, 
classification, or compensation of employees.
``Sec. 9377. Basic pay
    ``(a) Authority To Fix Rates of Basic Pay.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall fix the rates of basic pay for positions established 
under section 9376 of this title in relation to the rates of pay 
provided for comparable positions in the Department of Defense and 
subject to the same limitations on maximum rates of pay established for 
employees of the Department of Defense by law or regulation, or based 
upon compensation for similar positions in a labor market, as necessary 
to recruit and retain employees in support of the Space Force. The rate 
of basic pay for any position under the authority of this subchapter 
may not exceed the rate payable for a position at Level II of the 
Executive Schedule.
    ``(b) Prevailing Rate Systems.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, the Secretary of Defense may, consistent with section 5341 of 
title 5, adopt such provisions of that title as to provide for 
prevailing rate systems of basic pay and may apply those provisions to 
positions for civilian employees in or under which the Department of 
Defense may employ individuals described by section 5342(a)(2)(A) of 
that title.
``Sec. 9378. Additional compensation, allowances, and incentives
    ``(a) Additional Compensation.--The Secretary of Defense may 
provide employees in Space Force positions compensation in addition to 
basic pay, including benefits, incentives, and allowances, consistent 
with and not in excess of the level authorized for comparable positions 
authorized by title 5.
    ``(b) Allowances Based on Living Costs and Environment.--(1) In 
addition to basic pay, employees in Space Force positions who are 
citizens or nationals of the United States and are stationed outside 
the continental United States or in Alaska may be paid an allowance, in 
accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, 
while they are so stationed.
    ``(2) An allowance under this subsection shall be based on--
            ``(A) living costs substantially higher than in the 
        District of Columbia; or
            ``(B) conditions of environment that--
                    ``(i) differ substantially from conditions of 
                environment in the continental United States; and
                    ``(ii) warrant an allowance as a recruitment 
                incentive.
    ``(3) An allowance under this subsection may not exceed the 
allowance authorized to be paid by section 5941(a) of title 5 for 
employees whose rates of basic pay are fixed by statute.
``Sec. 9379. Limitation on certain payments
    ``No allowance, differential, bonus, award, or other similar cash 
payment under this title may be paid to an employee in a calendar year 
if, or to the extent that, when added to the total basic pay paid or 
payable to such employee for service performed in such calendar year, 
such payment would cause the total to exceed the total annual 
compensation payable to the Vice President under section 104 of title 3 
as of the end of such calendar year.
``Sec. 9380. Benefits for certain employees assigned outside the United 
              States
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may provide to civilian 
personnel described in subsection (c) allowances and benefits 
comparable to those provided by the Secretary of State to officers and 
employees of the Foreign Service under paragraphs (2) through (8) and 
(13) of section 901 and sections 705 and 903 of the Foreign Service Act 
of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), and (13), 
4025, 4083) and under section 5924(4) of title 5.
    ``(b) Applicability.--Subsection (a) shall apply to civilian 
personnel of the Department of Defense who--
            ``(1) are United States nationals;
            ``(2) are assigned to duty outside the United States; and
            ``(3) are designated by the Secretary of Defense for the 
        purposes of subsection (a).
``Sec. 9381. Space Force Senior Executive Service
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense may establish a 
Space Force Senior Executive Service for Space Force positions 
established pursuant to section 9376(a) of this title that are 
equivalent to Senior Executive Service positions.
    ``(b) Regulations Consistent With Title 5 Provisions.--(1) The 
Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations for the Space Force 
Senior Executive Service that are consistent with the requirements set 
forth in sections 3131, 3132(a)(2), 3396(c), 3592, 3595(a), 5384, and 
6304 of title 5, subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 7543 of such 
title (except that any hearing or appeal to which a member of the Space 
Force Senior Executive Service is entitled shall be held or decided 
pursuant to those regulations), and subchapter II of chapter 43 of such 
title.
    ``(2) To the extent that the Secretary determines it practicable to 
apply to members of, or applicants for, the Space Force Senior 
Executive Service other provisions of title 5 that apply to members of, 
or applicants for, the Senior Executive Service, the Secretary shall 
also prescribe regulations to implement those provisions with respect 
to the Space Force Senior Executive Service.
    ``(c) Award of Rank to Members of the Space Force Senior Executive 
Service.--The President, based on the recommendation of the Secretary 
of Defense, may award a rank referred to in section 4507 of title 5 to 
a member of the Space Force Senior Executive Service. The award of such 
rank shall be made in a manner consistent with the provisions of that 
section.
    ``(d) Performance Appraisals.--(1) The Space Force Senior Executive 
Service shall be subject to a performance appraisal system that, as 
designed and applied, is certified by the Secretary of Defense under 
section 5307 of title 5 as making meaningful distinctions based on 
relative performance.
    ``(2) The performance appraisal system applicable to the Space 
Force Senior Executive Service under paragraph (1) may be the same 
performance appraisal system that is established and implemented within 
the Department of Defense for members of the Senior Executive Service.
``Sec. 9382. Space Force Senior Level positions
    ``(a) Designation of Positions.--The Secretary of Defense may 
designate as a Space Force Senior Level position any Space Force 
position that, as determined by the Secretary--
            ``(1) is classifiable above grade GS-15 of the General 
        Schedule;
            ``(2) does not satisfy functional or program management 
        criteria for being designated a Space Force Senior Executive 
        Service position; and
            ``(3) has no more than minimal supervisory 
        responsibilities.
    ``(b) Regulations.--Subsection (a) shall be carried out in 
accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.
    ``(c) Award of Rank to Employees in Space Force Senior Level 
Positions.--The President, based on the recommendation of the Secretary 
of Defense, may award a rank referred to in section 4507a of title 5 to 
an employee in a Space Force Senior Level position designated under 
subsection (a). The award of such rank shall be made in a manner 
consistent with the provisions of that section.
``Sec. 9383. Time-limited appointments
    ``(a) Authority for Time-Limited Appointments.--The Secretary of 
Defense may authorize time-limited appointments to Space Force 
positions.
    ``(b) Review of Use of Authority.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
review each time-limited appointment in a Space Force position at the 
end of the first year of the period of the appointment and determine 
whether the appointment should be continued for the remainder of the 
period.
    ``(c) Condition on Permanent Appointment to Space Force Senior 
Executive Service.--An employee serving in a Space Force position 
pursuant to a time-limited appointment is not eligible for a permanent 
appointment to a Space Force Senior Executive Service position 
(including a position in which the employee is serving) unless the 
employee is selected for the permanent appointment on a competitive 
basis.
    ``(d) Time-Limited Appointment Defined.--In this section, the term 
`time-limited appointment' means an appointment for a period not to 
exceed three years.
``Sec. 9384. Termination of Space Force employees
    ``(a) Termination Authority.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, the Secretary of Defense may terminate the employment of any 
employee in a Space Force position if the Secretary--
            ``(1) considers that action to be in the interests of the 
        United States; and
            ``(2) determines that the procedures prescribed in other 
        provisions of law that authorize the termination of the 
        employment of such employee cannot be invoked in a manner 
        consistent with the national security.
    ``(b) Finality.--A decision by the Secretary of Defense to 
terminate the employment of an employee under this section is final and 
may not be appealed or reviewed outside the Department of Defense.
    ``(c) Notification to Congressional Defense Committees.--Whenever 
the Secretary of Defense terminates the employment of an employee under 
the authority of this section, the Secretary shall promptly notify the 
congressional defense committees of such termination.
    ``(d) Preservation of Right To Seek Other Employment.--Any 
termination of employment under this section shall not affect the right 
of the terminated employee to seek or accept employment with any other 
department or agency of the United States if that employee is declared 
eligible for such employment by the Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management.
    ``(e) Limitation on Delegation.--The authority of the Secretary of 
Defense under this section may be delegated only to the Deputy 
Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of the Air Force. An action to 
terminate employment of an employee by the Deputy Secretary of Defense 
or the Secretary of the Air Force may be appealed to the Secretary of 
Defense.
``Sec. 9385. Reductions and other adjustments in force
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations for the separation of employees in Space Force positions, 
including members of the Space Force Senior Executive Service and 
employees in Space Force Senior Level positions, during a reduction in 
force or other adjustment in force. Such regulations shall apply to 
such a reduction in force or other adjustment in force notwithstanding 
sections 3501(b) and 3502 of title 5.
    ``(b) Determinations.--The determination of which employees shall 
be separated from employment in Space Force positions during a 
reduction in force or other adjustment in force shall be made primarily 
on the basis of performance.
    ``(c) Regulations Relating to Space Force SES.--The regulations 
prescribed under this section relating to removal from the Space Force 
Senior Executive Service in a reduction in force or other adjustment in 
force shall be consistent with section 3595(a) of title 5.
``Sec. 9386. Postemployment assistance: certain terminated Space Force 
              employees
    ``(a) Authority.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary 
of Defense may, in the case of any individual who is a qualified former 
Space Force employee, use appropriated funds to--
            ``(1) assist that individual in finding and qualifying for 
        employment other than in a Space Force position;
            ``(2) assist that individual in meeting the expenses of 
        treatment of medical or psychological disabilities of that 
        individual; and
            ``(3) provide financial support to that individual during 
        periods of unemployment.
    ``(b) Conditions.--Assistance may be provided to a qualified former 
Space Force employee under subsection (a) only if the Secretary 
determines that such assistance is essential to--
            ``(1) maintain the judgment and emotional stability of the 
        qualified former Space Force employee; and
            ``(2) avoid circumstances that might lead to the unlawful 
        disclosure of classified information to which the qualified 
        former Space Force employee had access.
    ``(c) Duration of Assistance.--Assistance may not be provided under 
this section in the case of any individual after the end of the five-
year period beginning on the date of the termination of the employment 
of the individual in a Space Force position.
    ``(d) Qualified Former Space Force Employee Defined.--In this 
section, the term `qualified former Space Force employee' means an 
individual who was employed in a Space Force position--
            ``(1) who has been found to be ineligible for continued 
        access to information designated as `Sensitive Compartmented 
        Information' and employment in the Space Force; or
            ``(2) whose employment in a Space Force position has been 
        terminated.
``Sec. 9387. Appointment of Space Force employees to competitive 
              service positions in the Department of Defense
    ``(a) Authority.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of 
Defense may appoint an employee serving in a Space Force position in 
the excepted service to a position in the Department of Defense in the 
competitive service without competition.
    ``(b) Conditions.--The Secretary may only exercise the authority 
under subsection (a) if--
            ``(1) the employee concerned has served continuously for at 
        least two years in a Space Force position that is not time-
        limited under an excepted appointment or has been involuntarily 
        separated from such position without personal cause within the 
        preceding 12 months;
            ``(2) the employee concerned meets the qualification 
        standards and requirements for the competitive service position 
        in accordance with Office of Personnel Management standards; 
        and
            ``(3) the employee concerned is considered for selection to 
        competitive service positions in the same manner that other 
        individuals are considered for appointments without 
        competition.
``Sec. 9388. Merit system principles; civil service protections; right 
              of appeal
    ``(a) Merit System Principles.--Section 2301 of title 5 shall apply 
to the exercise of authority under this subchapter (other than sections 
9380 and 9386).
    ``(b) Civil Service Protections.--(1) If, in the case of a position 
established under authority other than section 9376(a)(1) of this title 
that is reestablished as an excepted service position under that 
section, the provisions of law referred to in paragraph (2) applied to 
the person serving in that position immediately before the position is 
so reestablished and such provisions of law would not otherwise apply 
to the person while serving in the position as so reestablished, then 
such provisions of law shall, subject to paragraph (3), continue to 
apply to the person with respect to service in that position for as 
long as the person continues to serve in the position without a break 
in service.
    ``(2) The provisions of law referred to in paragraph (1) are the 
following provisions of title 5:
            ``(A) Section 2302, relating to prohibited personnel 
        practices.
            ``(B) Chapter 75, relating to adverse actions.
    ``(3)(A) Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 75 of title 5, an 
appeal of an adverse action by an individual employee covered by 
paragraph (1) shall be determined within the Department of Defense if 
the employee so elects.
    ``(B) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe the procedures for 
initiating and determining appeals of adverse actions pursuant to 
elections made under subparagraph (A).
    ``(c) Right of Appeal.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations to provide a right of appeal regarding a personnel action 
under this subchapter. The appeal shall be determined within the 
Department of Defense. An appeal determined at the highest level 
provided in the regulations shall be final and not subject to review 
outside the Department of Defense. A personnel action covered by the 
regulations is not subject to any other provision of law that provides 
appellate rights or procedures.''.

SEC. 1705. DECORATIONS AND AWARDS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 937 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 9287. General authority to provide Space Force decorations and 
              awards
    ``In addition to the decorations and awards available to all 
personnel of the Department of the Air Force pursuant to the other 
sections of this chapter, the Secretary of the Air Force may provide 
such awards and decorations as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
any person who, while serving in any capacity with the Space Force, 
distinguished himself or herself.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``9287. General authority to provide Space Force decorations and 
                            awards.''.

SEC. 1706. REPEAL OF PROVISION RELATED TO AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND.

    (a) Repeal.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2279c of title 10, United States 
        Code, is repealed.
            (2) Table of sections amendment.--The table of sections at 
        the beginning of chapter 135 of title 10, United States Code, 
        is amended by striking the item relating to section 2279c.
    (b) Continuation of Procurement Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 963 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by inserting before section 9532 the following 
        new section:
``Sec. 9531. Procurement of commercial satellite communications 
              services
    ``The Secretary of the Air Force, in consultation with the Chief 
Information Officer of the Department of Defense, shall be responsible 
for the procurement of commercial satellite communications services for 
the Department of Defense.''.
            (2) Applicability.--Section 9531 of title 10, United States 
        Code, as added by paragraph (1) of this subsection, shall apply 
        with respect to services procured after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (3) Table of sections amendment.--The table of sections at 
        the beginning of chapter 963 of such title is amended by 
        inserting before the item relating to section 9532 the 
        following new item:

``9531. Procurement of commercial satellite communications services.''.

SEC. 1707. TRANSFER OF PERSONNEL, PROPERTY, AND RESOURCES AND OTHER 
              TRANSITION MATTERS.

    (a) Transition Period.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), for purposes of 
        this section, the transition period is the period that ends on 
        the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.
            (2) Extension.--The Secretary of Defense may extend the 
        transition period described in paragraph (1) for not more than 
        two years if the Secretary--
                    (A) determines an extension is necessary to 
                accomplish the initial establishment of the United 
                States Space Force; and
                    (B) submits to the congressional defense committees 
                notice of the Secretary's intent to extend the 
                transition period.
    (b) Transfer of Military Members.--
            (1) Transfer authority.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the Secretary of Defense, in the sole and 
        exclusive discretion of the Secretary, may, during the 
        transition period, transfer officers and enlisted members of 
        the Armed Forces within the Department of Defense to become 
        officers and enlisted members of the United States Space Force.
            (2) Basis.--A transfer under paragraph (1) may be made on a 
        voluntary or involuntary basis.
            (3) Status of personnel.--
                    (A) Retention of grade and status.--Military 
                personnel transferred to the Space Force from another 
                Armed Force within the Department of Defense pursuant 
                to this subsection shall retain the grade and date of 
                obtaining such grade that the individual person had 
                before the date of the transfer unless otherwise 
                altered or terminated in accordance with law. For all 
                purposes under law, the length, character, and type of 
                service of such personnel transferred to the Space 
                Force shall be calculated to include the same length, 
                character, and type of service in the Armed Force from 
                which such personnel are transferred as if there was no 
                break in service.
                    (B) Rights and benefits.--No transfer under this 
                subsection shall alter or prejudice the status of any 
                individual so transferred, so as to deprive the 
                individual of any right, benefit, or privilege to which 
                the individual may be entitled under law due to the 
                service of the individual in an Armed Force within the 
                Department of Defense other than the Space Force.
                    (C) Bonuses.--No funds previously paid to a 
                military member as a valid pay or bonus provided 
                pursuant to chapter 5 of title 37, United States Code, 
                may be recouped if a member's disqualification for the 
                pay or bonus is solely due to a transfer under this 
                subsection.
    (c) Transfer of Civilian Employees.--
            (1) Authority.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        the Secretary of Defense, in the sole and exclusive discretion 
        of the Secretary, may, during the transition period--
                    (A) establish regulations to effectuate any 
                necessary transfers of civilian personnel among the 
                military departments and other components of the 
                Department of Defense, and any necessary reductions or 
                adjustments in force; and
                    (B) effectuate such transfers (on a voluntary or 
                involuntary basis) and reductions or adjustments in 
                force pursuant to the regulations established in 
                subparagraph (A).
            (2) No reduction in pay.--No employee transferred in 
        accordance with this subsection shall suffer any loss of or 
        decrease in pay as a result of that transfer.
            (3) Effect of transfer.--A personnel action taken pursuant 
        to this subsection is final and is not subject to any other 
        provision of law that provides appellate rights or procedures 
        for civilian employees of the Department of Defense.
    (d) Transfer of Equipment, Supplies, Other Property, and Records.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Defense, 
in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Secretary, may, during the 
transition period, direct the transfer of equipment, supplies, other 
property not deemed to be real property, and records from a military 
department or other Department of Defense component to the Department 
of the Air Force.
    (e) Transfer of Functions.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary of Defense, in the sole and exclusive discretion of 
the Secretary, may, during the transition period, transfer 
organizations or functions within the Department of Defense to the 
Space Force, including civilian personnel, assets, equipment, and 
obligations of those organizations or functions.
    (f) Transfer of Funds During Transition Period.--
            (1) Authority.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        the Secretary of Defense, in the sole and exclusive discretion 
        of the Secretary, may, during the transition period--
                    (A) transfer to the Department of the Air Force 
                balances from appropriations or funds currently 
                available for obligation by the military departments 
                and other components of the Department of Defense from 
                which personnel, equipment, supplies, property, or 
                records have been transferred pursuant to subsections 
                (b), (c) and (d), to be used for a purpose for which 
                the appropriations or funds were originally available; 
                and
                    (B) credit amounts transferred to an applicable 
                existing or new appropriation account or fund, to be 
                merged with and to be available for the same time 
                period as the appropriation or fund, to which 
                transferred.
            (2) Relationship to other laws.--The authority under this 
        subsection is in addition to any other transfer authority 
        provided by law.
    (g) Mission Assurance During Transition Period.--Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary of Defense may, during the 
transition period, authorize space forces, organizations, functions, 
personnel, installations, or facilities transferred to the Department 
of the Air Force to be funded, operated, or controlled by another 
Department of Defense component, including a military department, 
without compensation or reimbursement, if the Secretary determines that 
action is essential to maintain space mission integrity and readiness.
    (h) Exclusion of Space Organizations From Fiscal Year 2020 and 2021 
Headquarters Costs Ceilings.--
            (1) Exclusion.--The amounts expended on space organizations 
        shall be excluded from the calculation of the amounts that may 
        be obligated and expended on major headquarters activities 
        pursuant to section 931 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) and 
        major Department of Defense headquarters activities pursuant to 
        section 346(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 111 note).
            (2) Definitions.--In this subsection, the term ``space 
        organizations'' means the following:
                    (A) The office of the Under Secretary of the Air 
                Force for Space.
                    (B) The Space Staff.
    (i) Suspension of Manpower Limitations During Transition Period.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the transition 
period, members of the Armed Forces appointed, assigned, or transferred 
to the Space Force and civilian employees appointed, assigned, or 
transferred to or within the Department of the Air Force to support the 
Space Force shall not count against any limitation on manpower that may 
apply to the Department of the Air Force, including--
            (1) sections 517, 523, 525, 526, 526a, 9014, and 9110 of 
        title 10, United States Code;
            (2) section 3133 of title 5, United States Code; and
            (3) sections 501 and 1109 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. 525 note; 5 
        U.S.C. 3133 note).

                   Subtitle B--Conforming Amendments

SEC. 1711. DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE PROVISIONS IN TITLE 10, UNITED 
              STATES CODE.

    (a) Organization.--
            (1) Secretary of the air force.--Section 9013 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (f), by inserting ``and Space 
                Force'' after ``Officers of the Air Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (g)(1), by inserting ``and Space 
                Force'' after ``members of the Air Force''.
            (2) Office of the secretary of the air force.--Section 9014 
        of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and the 
                        Air Staff'' and inserting ``, the Air Staff, 
                        and the Space Staff'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Staff'' after ``the Air Staff'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``to 
                        the Chief of Staff and to the Air Staff'' and 
                        all that follows through the period and 
                        inserting ``to the Chief of Staff of the Air 
                        Force and the Air Staff, and to the Chief of 
                        Staff of the Space Force and the Space Staff, 
                        and shall ensure that each such office or 
                        entity provides each Chief of Staff such staff 
                        support as the Chief of Staff concerned 
                        considers necessary to perform the Chief's 
                        duties and responsibilities.''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (4)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``and the Space 
                                Staff'' after ``the Air Staff''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``Chief'' and 
                                inserting ``Chiefs'';
                    (B) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and the 
                        Air Staff'' and inserting ``, the Air Staff, 
                        and the Space Staff'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and 
                        the Space Staff'' after ``the Air Staff''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (4), by striking ``to 
                        the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and to the 
                        Air Staff'' and all that follows through the 
                        period and inserting ``to the Chief of Staff of 
                        the Air Force and the Air Staff, and to the 
                        Chief of Staff of the Space Force and the Space 
                        Staff, and shall ensure that such office or 
                        entity provides each Chief of Staff such staff 
                        support as the Chief of Staff concerned 
                        considers necessary to perform the Chief's 
                        duties and responsibilities.''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) by striking ``and the Air Staff'' and 
                        inserting ``, the Air Staff, and the Space 
                        Staff''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``to the other'' and 
                        inserting ``to any of the others''.
            (3) Secretary of the air force: successors to duties.--
        Section 9017(5) of such title, as redesignated by section 1702 
        of this Act, is amended by inserting before the period the 
        following: ``of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the 
        Space Force, in the order prescribed by the Secretary of the 
        Air Force and approved by the Secretary of Defense''.
            (4) Inspector general.--Section 9020 of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by inserting ``Department of the'' 
                        after ``Inspector General of the''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
                        after ``general officers of the Air Force'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
                        by striking ``or the Chief of Staff'' and 
                        inserting ``, the Chief of Staff of the Air 
                        Force, or the Chief of Staff of the Space 
                        Force'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (1), by inserting 
                        ``Department of the'' before ``Air Force''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the 
                        Chief'' and inserting ``either Chief''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' before ``for a tour of duty''.
            (5) The air staff: function; composition.--Section 9031(b) 
        of such title is amended--
                    (A) in each of paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4), 
                by inserting ``of the Air Force'' before the period; 
                and
                    (B) in paragraph (8), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``of the Air Force''.
            (6) Chief of staff.--
                    (A) In general.--The heading of section 9033 of 
                such title is amended by inserting ``of the Air Force'' 
                after ``Staff''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The item relating to 
                section 9033 in the table of sections at the beginning 
                of chapter 905 of such title is amended to read as 
                follows:

``9033. Chief of Staff of the Air Force.''.
            (7) Vice chief of staff.--
                    (A) In general.--The heading of section 9034 of 
                such title is amended by inserting ``of the Air Force'' 
                after ``Staff''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The item relating to 
                section 9034 in the table of sections at the beginning 
                of chapter 905 of such title is amended to read as 
                follows:

``9034. Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force.''.
            (8) Deputy chiefs of staff and assistant chiefs of staff.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9035 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in the heading, by inserting ``of the 
                        Air Force'' after ``Staff'' both places it 
                        appears; and
                            (ii) in subsection (a), by inserting ``of 
                        the Air Force'' after ``Staff'' both places it 
                        appears.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The item relating to 
                section 9035 in the table of sections at the beginning 
                of chapter 905 of such title is amended to read as 
                follows:

``9034. Deputy Chiefs of Staff of the Air Force and Assistant Chiefs of 
                            Staff of the Air Force.''.
            (9) Surgeon general: appointment; duties.--Section 9036 of 
        such title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Secretary of 
                the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force 
                on all health and medical matters of the Air Force'' 
                and inserting ``Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief 
                of Staff of the Air Force, and the Chief of Staff of 
                the Space Force on all health and medical matters of 
                the Air Force and the Space Force''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and the Space 
                Force'' after ``of the Air Force'' both places it 
                appears.
            (10) Judge advocate general, deputy judge advocate general: 
        appointment; duties.--Section 9037 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (e)(2)(B), by inserting ``or the 
                Space Force'' after ``of the Air Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``the 
                Secretary of the Air Force or the Chief of Staff of the 
                Air Force'' and inserting ``the Secretary of the Air 
                Force, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, or the 
                Chief of Staff of the Space Force''.
            (11) Chief of chaplains: appointment; duties.--Section 
        9039(a) of such title is amended by striking ``in the Air 
        Force'' and inserting ``for the Air Force and the Space 
        Force''.
            (12) Provision of certain professional functions for the 
        space force.--Section 9067 of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsections (a) through (i), by striking 
                ``in the Air Force'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``in the Air Force and the Space Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (i), as amended by subparagraph 
                (A) of this paragraph, by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``members of the Air Force''.
            (13) Commands: territorial organization.--
                    (A) In general.--Chapter 909 of such title, as 
                added by section 1701 of this Act, is amended by adding 
                at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 9096. Commands: territorial organization
    ``(a) Except as otherwise prescribed by law or by the Secretary of 
Defense, the Space Force shall be divided into such organizations as 
the Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe.
    ``(b) For Space Force purposes, the United States, its possessions, 
and other places in which the Space Force is stationed or is operating, 
may be divided into such areas as directed by the Secretary. Officers 
of the Space Force may be assigned to command Space Force activities, 
installations, and personnel in those areas. In the discharge of the 
Space Force's functions or other functions authorized by law, officers 
so assigned have the duties and powers prescribed by the Secretary.''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at 
                the end the following new item:

``9096. Commands: territorial organization.''.
            (14) Officer career field for space.--Section 9084 of such 
        title is repealed. The table of sections at the beginning of 
        chapter 907 of such title is amended by striking the item 
        relating to such section.
            (15) Regular space force.--
                    (A) In general.--Chapter 909 of such title, as 
                added by section 1701 of this Act, is further amended 
                by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 9097. Regular Space Force: composition
    ``(a) The Regular Space Force is the component of the Space Force 
that consists of persons whose continuous service on active duty in 
both peace and war is contemplated by law, and of retired members of 
the Regular Space Force.
    ``(b) The Regular Space Force includes--
            ``(1) the officers and enlisted members of the Regular 
        Space Force; and
            ``(2) the retired officers and enlisted members of the 
        Regular Space Force.''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at 
                the end the following new item:

``9097. Regular Space Force: composition.''.
            (16) Table of chapters.--The table of chapters for part I 
        of subtitle D of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new item:

``909. The Space Force......................................    9091''.
    (b) Personnel.--
            (1) Gender-free basis for acceptance of original 
        enlistments.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9132 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in the heading, by inserting ``and 
                        Regular Space Force'' before the colon; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or the Regular Space 
                        Force'' after ``Regular Air Force''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The item relating to 
                section 9132 in the table of sections at the beginning 
                of chapter 913 of such title is amended to read as 
                follows:

``9132. Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: gender-free basis 
                            for acceptance of original enlistments.''.
            (2) Reenlistment after service as an officer.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9138 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in the heading, by inserting ``and 
                        Regular Space Force'' before the colon; and
                            (ii) in subsection (a)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``or the Regular 
                                Space Force'' after ``Regular Air 
                                Force'' both places it appears; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``or the Space 
                                Force'' after ``officer of the Air 
                                Force'' both places it appears.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The item relating to 
                section 9138 in the table of sections at the beginning 
                of chapter 913 of such title is amended to read as 
                follows:

``9138. Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: reenlistment after 
                            service as an officer.''.
            (3) Appointments in the regular air force and the regular 
        space force.--
                    (A) The heading of chapter 915 of such title is 
                amended by adding ``AND REGULAR SPACE FORCE'' after 
                ``AIR FORCE'', and the item relating to such chapter in 
                the table of chapters at the beginning of part II of 
                subtitle D of such title is amended by inserting ``and 
                Regular Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
                    (B) Section 9151 of such title is amended by 
                inserting ``and the Regular Space Force'' after 
                ``Regular Air Force''.
                    (C) Section 9160 of such title is amended--
                            (i) by inserting ``or the Regular Space 
                        Force'' after ``Regular Air Force''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
                        before the period.
            (4) Retired commissioned officers: status.--Section 9203 of 
        such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after 
        ``the Air Force''.
            (5) Duties: chaplains; assistance required of commanding 
        officers.--Section 9217(a) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (6) Rank: commissioned officers serving under temporary 
        appointments.--Section 9222 of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force'' both 
        places it appears.
            (7) Requirement of exemplary conduct.--Section 9233 of such 
        title is amended by inserting ``and the Space Force'' after 
        ``the Air Force'' each place it appears.
            (8) Enlisted members: officers not to use as servants.--
        Section 9239 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the 
        Space Force'' after ``Air Force'' both places it appears.
            (9) Presentation of united states flag upon retirement.--
        Section 9251(a) of such title is amended by inserting ``or the 
        Space Force'' after ``member of the Air Force''.
            (10) Service credit: regular enlisted members; service as 
        an officer to be counted as enlisted service.--Section 9252 of 
        such title is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``or the Regular Space Force'' 
                after ``Regular Air Force''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``in the Space Force,'' after ``in 
                the Air Force,''.
            (11) When secretary may require hospitalization.--Section 
        9263 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space 
        Force'' after ``member of the Air Force''.
            (12) Decorations and awards.--(A) Chapter 937 of such title 
        is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``the Air 
        Force'' each place it appears in the following provisions:
                    (i) Section 9271.
                    (ii) Section 9273.
                    (iii) Section 9281 other than the first reference 
                in subsection (a).
                    (iv) Section 9286(a) other than the first 
                reference.
            (B) Section 9272 of such title is amended by inserting ``or 
        the Space Force'' after ``with the Air Force''.
            (C) Section 9275 of such title is amended by inserting ``or 
        space'' after ``separate air''.
            (D) Section 9276 of such title is amended by inserting ``or 
        the Space Force'' after ``with the Air Force''.
            (E)(i) Such chapter is further amended by inserting after 
        section 9280 the following new section:
``Sec. 9280a. Space Force Medal: award; limitations
    ``(a) The President may award a decoration called the `Space Force 
Medal', of appropriate design with accompanying ribbon, to any person 
who, while serving in any capacity with the Space Force, distinguishes 
himself or herself by heroism not involving actual conflict with an 
enemy.
    ``(b) Not more than one Space Force Medal may be awarded to a 
person. However, for each succeeding act that would otherwise justify 
award of such a medal, the President may award a suitable bar or other 
device to be worn as the President directs.''.
            (ii) The table of sections at the beginning of such title 
        is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 9280 
        the following new item:

``9280a. Space Force Medal: award; limitations.''.
            (13) Twenty years or more: regular or reserve commissioned 
        officers.--Section 9311(a) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``officer of the Air 
        Force''.
            (14) Twenty to thirty years: enlisted members.--Section 
        9314 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space 
        Force'' after ``member of the Air Force''.
            (15) Thirty years or more: regular enlisted members.--
        Section 9317 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the 
        Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (16) Thirty years or more: regular commissioned officers.--
        Section 9318 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the 
        Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (17) Forty years or more: air force officers.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9324 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in the heading, by inserting ``and 
                        Space Force'' after ``Air Force''; and
                            (ii) in subsections (a) and (b), by 
                        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air 
                        Force''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The item relating to 
                section 9324 in the table of sections at the beginning 
                of chapter 941 of such title is amended to read as 
                follows:

``9124. Forty years or more: Air Force and Space Force officers.''.
            (18) Computation of years of service: voluntary retirement; 
        enlisted members.--Section 9325(a) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (19) Computation of years of service: voluntary retirement; 
        regular and reserve commissioned officers.--Section 9326(a) of 
        such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after 
        ``Air Force'' both places it appears.
            (20) Computation of retired pay: law applicable.--Section 
        9329 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space 
        Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (21) Retired grade.--
                    (A) Section 9341 of such title is amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Force'' after ``regular commissioned 
                        officer of the Air Force''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or a 
                        Regular of the Space Force'' after ``Air 
                        Force''.
                    (B) Section 9344 of such title is amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Force'' after ``member of the Air 
                        Force'';
                            (ii) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting 
                        ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''; and
                            (iii) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting 
                        ``or the Regular Space Force'' after ``Regular 
                        Air Force''.
                    (C) Section 9345 of such title is amended by 
                inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``member of the 
                Air Force''.
                    (D) Section 9346 of such title is amended--
                            (i) in subsections (a) and (d), by 
                        inserting ``or the Regular Space Force'' after 
                        ``Regular Air Force'';
                            (ii) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting 
                        before the semicolon the following: ``, or for 
                        commissioned officers of the Space Force other 
                        than of the Regular Space Force''; and
                            (iii) in subsections (b)(2) and (c), by 
                        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air 
                        Force''.
            (22) Recomputation of retired pay to reflect advancement on 
        retired list.--Section 9362(a) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (23) Fatality reviews.--Section 9391(a) of such title, as 
        redesignated by section 1704(a)(2) of this title, is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air Force'' in each of 
        paragraphs (1), (2), and (3).
    (c) Training.--
            (1) Members of air force: detail as students, observers, 
        and investigators at educational institutions, industrial 
        plants, and hospitals.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9401 of title 10, United 
                States Code, is amended--
                            (i) in the heading, by inserting ``and 
                        Space Force'' after ``Air Force'';
                            (ii) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and 
                        the Space Force'' after ``members of the Air 
                        Force'';
                            (iii) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or 
                        the Regular Space Force'' after ``Regular Air 
                        Force'';
                            (iv) in subsection (e), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''; and
                            (v) in subsection (f)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``or the Regular 
                                Space Force'' after ``Regular Air 
                                Force''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``or the Space 
                                Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The item relating to 
                section 9401 in the table of sections at the beginning 
                of chapter 951 of such title is amended to read as 
                follows:

``9401. Members of Air Force and Space Force: detail as students, 
                            observers, and investigators at educational 
                            institutions, industrial plants, and 
                            hospitals.''.
            (2) Enlisted members of air force: schools.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9402 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in the heading, by inserting ``or Space 
                        Force'' after ``Air Force'';
                            (ii) in subsection (a)--
                                    (I) in the first sentence, by 
                                inserting ``and the Space Force'' after 
                                ``members of the Air Force''; and
                                    (II) in the third sentence, by 
                                inserting ``and Space Force officers'' 
                                after ``Air Force officers''; and
                            (iii) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Force'' after ``Air Force'' each 
                        place it appears.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The item relating to 
                section 9402 in the table of sections at the beginning 
                of chapter 951 of such title is amended to read as 
                follows:

``9402. Enlisted members of Air Force or Space Force: schools.''.
            (3) Aviation students: detail of enlisted members of air 
        force.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9404 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in the heading, by inserting ``or Space 
                        Force'' after ``Air Force''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
                        after ``Regulars of the Air Force''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The item relating to 
                section 9404 in the table of sections at the beginning 
                of chapter 951 of such title is amended to read as 
                follows:

``9402. Aviation students: detail of enlisted members of Air Force or 
                            Space Force.''.
            (4) Service schools: leaves of absence for instructors.--
        Section 9406 of such title is amended by inserting ``or Space 
        Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (5) Degree granting authority for united states air force 
        institute of technology.--Section 9414(d)(1) of such title is 
        amended by inserting ``and the Space Force'' after ``needs of 
        the Air Force''.
            (6) United states air force institute of technology: 
        administration.--Section 9414b(a)(2) is amended by inserting 
        ``or the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force'' each place it 
        appears.
            (7) Community college of the air force: associate 
        degrees.--Section 9415 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a) in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``in the Air Force'' and 
                inserting ``in the Department of the Air Force'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``or the 
                Space Force'' after ``Air Force''; and
                    (C) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``other 
                than'' and all that follows through ``schools'' and 
                inserting ``other than the Air Force or the Space Force 
                who are serving as instructors at Department of the Air 
                Force training schools''.
            (8) Air force academy establishment; superintendent; 
        faculty.--Section 9431(a) of such title is amended by striking 
        ``Air Force cadets'' and inserting ``cadets''.
            (9) Air force academy superintendent; faculty: appointment 
        and detail.--Section 9433(a) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (10) Air force academy permanent professors; director of 
        admissions.--Section 9436 of such title is amended by inserting 
        ``or the Regular Space Force'' after ``Regular Air Force'' each 
        place it appears.
            (11) Cadets: appointment; numbers, territorial 
        distribution.--Section 9442 of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Air Force Cadets'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``cadets''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or the 
                        Regular Space Force'' after ``Regular Air 
                        Force''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (12) Cadets: agreement to serve as officer.--Section 
        9448(a)(2)(A) of such title is amended by inserting ``or the 
        Regular Space Force'' after ``Regular Air Force''.
            (13) Cadets: organization; service; instruction.--Section 
        9449 of such title is amended by striking subsection (d).
            (14) Cadets: hazing.--Section 9452(c) of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Air Force cadet'' and inserting 
                ``cadet''; and
                    (B) by striking ``or Marine Corps'' and inserting 
                ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.
            (15) Cadets: degree and commission on graduation.--Section 
        9453(b) of such title is amended by inserting ``or the Regular 
        Space Force'' after ``Regular Air Force''.
            (16) Support of athletic programs.--Section 9462(c)(2) of 
        such title is amended by striking ``personnel of the Air 
        Force'' and inserting ``personnel of the Department of the Air 
        Force''.
            (17) Schools and camps: establishment: purpose.--Section 
        9481 of such title is amended by inserting ``, the Space 
        Force,'' after ``members of the Air Force,''.
            (18) Schools and camps: operation.--Section 9482 of such 
        title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``or the Regular 
                Space Force'' after ``Regular Air Force''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (7) in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or Space Force'' after 
                ``Air Force''.
    (d) Service, Supply, and Procurement.--
            (1) Equipment: bakeries, schools, kitchens, and mess 
        halls.--Section 9536 of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting ``or 
        the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (2) Ration.--Section 9561 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in the first sentence, by inserting 
                        ``and the Space Force ration'' after ``the Air 
                        Force ration''; and
                            (ii) in the second sentence, by inserting 
                        ``or the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force''; 
                        and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (3) Clothing.--Section 9562 of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``and the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (4) Clothing: replacement when destroyed to prevent 
        contagion.--Section 9563 of such title is amended by inserting 
        ``or the Space Force'' after ``member of the Air Force''.
            (5) Colors, standards, and guidons of demobilized 
        organizations: disposition.--Section 9565 of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a) in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
                after ``organizations of the Air Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (6) Utilities: proceeds from overseas operations.--Section 
        9591 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space 
        Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (7) Quarters: heat and light.--Section 9593 of such title 
        is amended by inserting ``and the Space Force'' after ``the Air 
        Force''.
            (8) Air force military history institute: fee for providing 
        historical information to the public.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9594 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in the heading, by inserting 
                        ``Department of the'' before ``Air Force'';
                            (ii) in subsections (a) and (d), by 
                        inserting ``Department of the'' before ``Air 
                        Force Military History'' each place it appears; 
                        and
                            (iii) in subsection (e)(1)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``Department of 
                                the'' before ``Air Force Military 
                                History''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``and the Space 
                                Force'' after ``materials of the Air 
                                Force''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The item relating to 
                section 9594 in the table of sections at the beginning 
                of chapter 9657 of such title is amended to read as 
                follows:

``9594. Department of the Air Force Military History Institute: fee for 
                            providing historical information to the 
                            public.''.
            (9) Subsistence and other supplies: members of armed 
        forces; veterans; executive or military departments and 
        employees; prices.--Section 9621 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and 
                        the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and 
                        the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force'';
                    (C) in subsection (c), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force'';
                    (D) in subsection (d), by striking ``or Marine 
                Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force'';
                    (E) in subsection (e), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force'' each place it appears;
                    (F) in subsection (f), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force''; and
                    (G) in subsection (h), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force'' each place it appears.
            (10) Rations: commissioned officers in field.--Section 9622 
        of such title is amended by inserting ``and the Space Force'' 
        after ``officers of the Air Force''.
            (11) Medical supplies: civilian employees of the air 
        force.--Section 9624(a) of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``air base'' and inserting ``Air 
                Force or Space Force military installation''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Air Force when'' and inserting 
                ``Department of the Air Force when''.
            (12) Ordnance property: officers of armed forces; civilian 
        employees of air force.--Section 9625 of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``officers of the Air Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``Air Force'' 
                and inserting ``Department of the Air Force''.
            (13) Supplies: educational institutions.--Section 9627 of 
        such title is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``for 
                the Air Force'';
                    (B) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after 
                ``officer of the Air Force''; and
                    (C) by inserting ``and space'' after ``professor of 
                air''.
            (14) Airplane parts and accessories: civilian flying 
        schools.--Section 9628 of such title is amended by inserting 
        ``or the Space Force'' after ``airplanes of the Air Force''.
            (15) Supplies: military instruction camps.--Section 9654 of 
        such title is amended by inserting ``or Space Force'' after 
        ``an Air Force''.
            (16) Disposition of effects of deceased persons by summary 
        court-martial.--Section 9712(a) of such title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or Space 
                Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (17) Acceptance of donations: land for mobilization, 
        training, supply base, or aviation field.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9771 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in the heading, by striking ``or 
                        aviation field'' and inserting ``aviation 
                        field, or space-related facility''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or 
                        space-related facility'' after ``aviation 
                        field''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The item relating to 
                section 9771 in the table of sections at the beginning 
                of chapter 979 of such title is amended to read as 
                follows:

``9771. Acceptance of donations: land for mobilization, training, 
                            supply base, aviation field, or space-
                            related facility.''.
            (18) Acquisition and construction: air bases and depots.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9773 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a)--
                                    (I) by striking ``permanent air 
                                bases'' and inserting ``permanent Air 
                                Force and Space Force military 
                                installations'';
                                    (II) by striking ``existing air 
                                bases'' and inserting ``existing 
                                installations''; and
                                    (III) by inserting ``or the Space 
                                Force'' after ``training of the Air 
                                Force'';
                            (ii) in the heading and in subsections (b) 
                        and (c), by striking ``air bases'' each place 
                        it appears and inserting ``installations''; and
                            (iii) in subsection (c)--
                                    (I) in paragraph (1), by inserting 
                                ``or Space Force'' after ``Air Force''; 
                                and
                                    (II) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by 
                                inserting ``or the Space Force'' after 
                                ``Air Force'' both places it appears.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The item relating to 
                section 9773 in the table of sections at the beginning 
                of chapter 979 of such title is amended to read as 
                follows:

``9773. Acquisition and construction: installations and depots.''.
            (19) Emergency construction: fortifications.--Section 9776 
        of such title is amended by striking ``air base'' and inserting 
        ``installation''.
            (20) Use of public property.--Section 9779(a) of such title 
        is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``economy 
        of the Air Force''.
            (21) Disposition of real property at missile sites.--
        Section 9781(a)(2) of such title is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``Air Force'' and inserting ``Department of 
                the Air Force'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``Air Force'' 
                the first two places it appears and inserting 
                ``Department of the Air Force''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``Air Force'' 
                and inserting ``Department of the Air Force''.
            (22) Maintenance and repair of real property.--Section 9782 
        of such title is amended in subsections (c) and (d) by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force'' both 
        places it appears.
            (23) Settlement of accounts: remission or cancellation of 
        indebtedness of members.--Section 9837(a) of such title is 
        amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``member of 
        the Air Force''.
            (24) Final settlement of officer's accounts.--Section 9840 
        of such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
        after ``Air Force''.
            (25) Payment of small amounts to public creditors.--Section 
        9841 of such title is amended by inserting ``or Space Force'' 
        after ``official of Air Force''.
            (26) Settlement of accounts of line officers.--Section 9842 
        of such title is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air 
                Force''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Comptroller General'' both places 
                it appears and inserting ``Secretary of the Air 
                Force''.

SEC. 1712. OTHER PROVISIONS OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Table of Subtitles.--The table of subtitles at the beginning of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating 
to subtitle D and inserting the following new item:

``D. Air Force and Space Force..............................    9011''.
    (b) Definitions.--Section 101 of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``Space Force,'' 
                after ``Marine Corps,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (9)(C), by inserting ``and the 
                Space Force'' after ``concerning the Air Force''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (4), by striking ``or Marine 
                Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''; 
                and
                    (B) in paragraph (13), by striking ``or Marine 
                Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.
    (c) Other Provisions of Subtitle A.--
            (1) Space force i.--Subtitle A of such title is further 
        amended by striking ``and Marine Corps'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``Marine Corps, and Space Force'' in the 
        following provisions:
                    (A) Section 116(a)(1) in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (B) Section 533(a)(2).
                    (C) The item relating to section 632 in the table 
                of sections at the beginning of subchapter III of 
                chapter 36.
                    (D) The heading of section 632.
                    (E) Section 645(1)(A).
                    (F) Section 646.
                    (G) Section 661(a).
                    (H) Section 712(a).
                    (I) Section 717(c)(1).
                    (J) Section 741 (including the table in subsection 
                (a)).
                    (K) Section 1111(b)(4).
                    (L) Subsections (a)(2)(A) and (c)(2)(A)(ii) of 
                section 1143.
                    (M) Section 1174(j).
                    (N) Subparagraphs (F) and (G) of section 
                1370(a)(2).
                    (O) Section 1463(a).
                    (P) Section 1566.
                    (Q) Section 2217(c).
                    (R) Section 2259(a).
                    (S) Section 2640(j).
            (2) Space force ii.--Such subtitle is further amended by 
        striking ``Marine Corps,'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``Marine Corps, Space Force,'' in the following provisions:
                    (A) Section 123(a).
                    (B) Section 172(a).
                    (C) Section 518.
                    (D) The item relating to section 747 in the table 
                of sections at the beginning of chapter 43.
                    (E) Section 747 (including the heading).
                    (F) Section 749.
                    (G) Section 1552(c).
                    (H) Section 2632(c).
                    (I) Section 2686(a).
                    (J) Section 2733(a).
            (3) Space force iii.--Such subtitle is further amended by 
        striking ``or Marine Corps'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force'' in the following 
        provisions:
                    (A) Section 125(b).
                    (B) Section 275.
                    (C) Subsection (b)(2) and the first place it 
                appears in subsection (e) of section 533.
                    (D) Section 541(a).
                    (E) Section 601(a).
                    (F) Section 603(a).
                    (G) Section 605.
                    (H) Section 611(a).
                    (I) Section 619(a).
                    (J) Section 619a(a).
                    (K) Section 623(c).
                    (L) Section 625(b).
                    (M) Section 631.
                    (N) Section 632(a).
                    (O) Section 637(a)(2).
                    (P) Section 638(a).
                    (Q) Section 741.
                    (R) Section 771.
                    (S) Section 772.
                    (T) Section 773.
                    (U) Section 1123.
                    (V) Section 1143(d).
                    (W) Section 1174(a)(2).
                    (X) Section 1251(a).
                    (Y) Section 1252(a).
                    (Z) Section 1253(a).
                    (AA) Paragraphs (1) and (2)(A) of section 1370(a).
                    (BB) Section 1375.
                    (CC) Section 1413a(h).
                    (DD) Section 1551.
                    (EE) Section 1561(a).
                    (FF) Section 1733(b)(1)(A)(ii).
                    (GG) Section 2102(a).
                    (HH) Section 2103a(a).
                    (II) Section 2104.
                    (JJ) Section 2107.
                    (KK) Section 2421.
                    (LL) Section 2631(a).
                    (MM) Section 2787(a).
            (4) Regular space force i.--Such subtitle is further 
        amended by striking ``or Regular Marine Corps'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Regular Marine Corps, or Regular Space 
        Force'' in the following provisions:
                    (A) Section 531(c).
                    (B) Section 532(a) in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1).
                    (C) Subsections (a)(1), (b)(1), and (f) of section 
                533.
                    (D) Section 633(a).
                    (E) Section 634(a).
                    (F) Section 635.
                    (G) Section 636(a).
                    (H) Section 647(c).
                    (I) Section 688(b)(1).
                    (J) Section 1181.
            (5) Regular space force ii.--Such subtitle is further 
        amended by striking ``Regular Marine Corps,'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Regular Marine Corps, Regular Space 
        Force,'' in the following provisions:
                    (A) Section 505.
                    (B) Section 506.
                    (C) Section 508.
            (6) Armed forces policy council.--Section 171 of such title 
        is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (12), by striking ``and'';
                    (B) in paragraph (13), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(14) the Chief of Staff of the Space Force.''.
            (7) Joint requirements oversight council.--Section 
        181(c)(1) of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) A Space Force officer in the grade of 
                general.''.
            (8) Unfunded priorities.--Section 222a(b) of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph 
                (6); and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(5) The Chief of Staff of the Space Force.''.
            (9) Theater security cooperation expenses.--Section 
        312(b)(3) of such title is amended by inserting ``the Chief of 
        Staff of the Space Force,'' after ``the Commandant of the 
        Marine Corps,''.
            (10) Western hemisphere institute.--Section 343(e)(1)(E) of 
        such title is amended by inserting ``or Space Force'' after 
        ``for the Air Force''.
            (11) Original appointments of commissioned officers.--
        Section 531(a) of such title is amended by striking ``and 
        Regular Marine Corps'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``Regular Marine Corps, and Regular Space Force''.
            (12) Service credit.--Section 533(e) of such title is 
        further amended by striking ``Air Force or Marine Corps'' and 
        inserting ``Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force''.
            (13) Senior members of military staff committee of united 
        nations.--Section 711 of such title is amended by inserting 
        ``or Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (14) Rank: chief of staff.--Chapter 43 of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) in the table of sections at the beginning by 
                striking the item relating to section 743 and inserting 
                the following new item:

``743. Rank: Chief of Staff of the Army; Chief of Naval Operations; 
                            Chief of Staff of the Air Force; Commandant 
                            of the Marine Corps; Chief of Staff of the 
                            Space Force.'';
                and
                    (B) in section 743--
                            (i) in the heading, by inserting ``; Chief 
                        of Staff of the Space Force'' after 
                        ``Commandant of the Marine Corps'';
                            (ii) by striking ``and the Commandant of 
                        the Marine Corps'' and inserting ``the 
                        Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief 
                        of Staff of the Space Force''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``and Marine Corps'' and 
                        inserting ``Marine Corps, and Space Force''.
            (15) Uniform code of military justice.--Chapter 47 of such 
        title (Uniform Code of Military Justice) is amended--
                    (A) in section 822(a) (article 22)--
                            (i) in paragraph (5), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or 
                        Space Force''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (7), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps'' and inserting ``, Marine Corps, 
                        or Space Force'';
                    (B) in section 823(a) (article 23)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) by striking ``Air Force base'' 
                                and inserting ``Air Force or Space 
                                Force military installation''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``or the Air 
                                Force'' and inserting ``the Air Force, 
                                or the Space Force''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``or a 
                        corresponding unit of the Space Force'' after 
                        ``Air Force''; and
                    (C) in section 824(a)(3) (article 24), by inserting 
                ``or a corresponding unit of the Space Force'' after 
                ``Air Force''.
            (16) Service as cadet or midshipman not counted for length 
        of service.--Section 971(b)(2) of such title is amended by 
        striking ``or Air Force'' and inserting ``, Air Force, or Space 
        Force''.
            (17) Referral bonus.--Section 1030(h)(3) of such title is 
        amended by inserting ``and the Space Force'' after ``concerning 
        the Air Force''.
            (18) Return to active duty from temporary disability.--
        Section 1211(a) of such title is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``or the Air Force'' and inserting ``, the Air 
                Force, or the Space Force''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (6)--
                            (i) by striking ``or the Air Force, who'' 
                        and inserting ``the Air Force, or the Space 
                        Force who''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``or the Air Force, as'' 
                        and inserting ``the Air Force, or the Space 
                        Force, as''.
            (19) Years of service.--Section 1405(c) of such title is 
        amended by striking ``or Air Force'' and inserting ``, Air 
        Force, or Space Force''.
            (20) Retired pay base for persons who became members before 
        september 8, 1980.--Section 1406 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in the heading of subsection (e), by inserting 
                ``and Space Force'' after ``Air Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (i)(3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by redesignating clause (v) as 
                                clause (vi); and
                                    (II) by inserting after clause (iv) 
                                the following new clause:
                            ``(v) Chief of Staff of the Space Force.'';
                        and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) by redesignating clause (v) as 
                                clause (vi); and
                                    (II) by inserting after clause (iv) 
                                the following new clause:
                            ``(v) Chief Master Sergeant of the Space 
                        Force.''.
            (21) Special requirements for military personnel in 
        acquisition field.--Section 1722a(a) of such title is amended 
        by striking ``and the Commandant of the Marine Corps (with 
        respect to the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps, 
        respectively)'' and inserting ``, the Commandant of the Marine 
        Corps, and the Chief of Staff of the Space Force (with respect 
        to the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force, 
        respectively)''.
            (22) Senior military acquisition advisors.--Section 
        1725(e)(1)(C) of such title is amended by inserting ``and Space 
        Force'' before the period.
            (23) Military family readiness council.--Section 
        1781a(b)(1) of such title is amended by striking ``Marine 
        Corps, and Air Force'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force''.
            (24) Acquisition-related functions of chiefs of the armed 
        forces.--Section 2547(a) of such title is amended by striking 
        ``and the Commandant of the Marine Corps'' and inserting ``the 
        Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief of Staff of the 
        Space Force''.
            (25) Agreements related to military training, testing, and 
        operations.--Section 2684a(i) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``Space Force,'' before ``or Defense-wide 
        activities'' each place it appears.
    (d) Provisions of Subtitle B.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle B of such title is amended by 
        striking ``or Marine Corps'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force'' in the following 
        provisions:
                    (A) Section 7452(c).
                    (B) Section 7621(d).
            (2) Computation of years of service.--Section 7326(a)(1) of 
        such title is amended by striking ``or the Air Force'' and 
        inserting ``, the Air Force, or the Space Force''.
    (e) Provisions of Subtitle C.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle C of such title is amended by 
        striking ``or Marine Corps'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force'' in the following 
        provisions:
                    (A) Section 8464(f).
                    (B) Section 8806(d).
            (2) Sales prices.--Chapter 879 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in the table of sections at the beginning by 
                striking the item relating to section 8802 and 
                inserting the following:

``8802. Sales: members of Army, Air Force, and Space Force; prices.'';
                and
                    (B) in section 8802--
                            (i) in the heading, by striking ``and Air 
                        Force'' and inserting ``, Air Force, and Space 
                        Force''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``or the Air Force'' and 
                        inserting ``, the Air Force, or the Space 
                        Force''.
            (3) Sales to certain veterans.--Section 8803 of such title 
        is amended by striking ``or the Marine Corps'' and inserting 
        ``the Marine Corps, or the Space Force''.
            (4) Scope of chapter on prize.--Section 8851 of such title 
        is amended by striking ``or the Air Force'' and inserting ``, 
        the Air Force, or the Space Force''.

SEC. 1713. TITLE 5, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Armed Forces Definition.--Section 2101(2) of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after ``Marine Corps,'' the 
following: ``Space Force,''.
    (b) Position at Level III.--Section 5314 of such title is amended 
by striking ``Under Secretary of the Air Force'' and inserting ``Under 
Secretaries of the Air Force.''.

SEC. 1714. TITLE 14, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Voluntary Retirement.--Section 291 of title 14, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``or Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine 
Corps, or Space Force''.
    (b) Computation of Length of Service.--Section 467 of such title is 
amended by inserting after ``Air Force,'' the following: ``Space 
Force,''.

SEC. 1715. TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Posse Comitatus.--Section 1385 of title 18, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ``or the Air Force'' and inserting ``, the Air 
Force, or the Space Force''.
    (b) Firearms as Nonmailable.--Section 1715 of such title is amended 
by inserting ``Space Force,'' after ``Marine Corps,''.

SEC. 1716. TITLE 31, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Definitions Relating to Claims.--Section 3701(a)(7) of title 
31, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``Space Force,'' after 
``Marine Corps,''.
    (b) Collection and Compromise.--Section 3711(f) of such title is 
amended in paragraphs (1) and (3) by inserting ``Space Force,'' after 
``Marine Corps,'' each place it appears.

SEC. 1717. TITLE 37, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 101 of title 37, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by inserting ``Space 
        Force,'' after ``Marine Corps,'' each place it appears; and
            (2) in paragraph (5)(C), by inserting ``and the Space 
        Force'' after ``Air Force''.
    (b) Basic Pay Rates.--
            (1) Commissioned officers.--Footnote 2 of the table titled 
        ``commissioned officers'' in section 601(c) of the John Warner 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public 
        Law 109-364; 37 U.S.C. 1009 note) is amended by inserting after 
        ``Commandant of the Marine Corps,'' the following: ``Chief of 
        Staff of the Space Force,''.
            (2) Enlisted members.--Footnote 2 of the table titled 
        ``enlisted members'' in section 601(c) of the John Warner 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public 
        Law 109-364; 37 U.S.C. 1009 note) is amended by inserting after 
        ``Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps,'' the following: ``Chief 
        Master Sergeant of the Space Force,''.
    (c) Pay Grades: Assignment to; General Rules.--The table in section 
201(a) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking ``and 
Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, and Space Force'' in the 
heading for the second column.
    (d) Pay of Senior Enlisted Members.--Section 210(c) of such title 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph (5):
            ``(5) The Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force.''.
    (e) Allowances Other Than Travel and Transportation Allowances.--
            (1) Personal money allowance.--Section 414 of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(5), by inserting ``Chief of 
                Staff of the Space Force,'' after ``Commandant of the 
                Marines Corps,''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by inserting ``the Chief 
                Master Sergeant of the Space Force,'' after ``the 
                Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps,''.
            (2) Clothing allowance: enlisted members.--Section 418(d) 
        of such title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``Space Force,'' 
                after ``Air Force,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``the Space 
                Force,'' after ``the Air Force,''.
    (f) Travel and Transportation Allowances: Parking Expenses.--
Section 481i(b) of such title is amended by striking ``or Marine 
Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.
    (g) Leave.--
            (1) Addition of space force.--Chapter 9 of such title is 
        amended by inserting ``Space Force,'' after ``Marine Corps,'' 
        each place it appears in the following provisions:
                    (A) Subsections (b)(1) and (e)(1) of section 501.
                    (B) Section 502(a).
                    (C) Section 503(a).
            (2) Addition of regular space force.--Section 501(b)(5)(C) 
        of such title is amended by striking ``or Regular Marine 
        Corps'' and inserting ``Regular Marine Corps, or Regular Space 
        Force''.
    (h) Contract Surgeons.--Subsections (a), (c), and (d) of section 
701 of such title are each amended by inserting ``Space Force,'' after 
``Air Force,''.
    (i) Forfeiture of Pay.--Chapter 15 of such title is amended--
            (1) in section 802, by striking ``or Marine Corps'' and 
        inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''; and
            (2) in section 803, by striking ``or the Air Force'' and 
        inserting ``the Air Force, or the Space Force''.
    (j) Effect on Pay of Extension of Enlistment.--Section 906 of such 
title is amended by inserting ``Space Force,'' after ``Marine Corps,''.
    (k) Administration of Pay.--Chapter 19 of such title is amended--
            (1) in section 1005, by striking ``and of the Air Force'' 
        and inserting ``the Air Force, and the Space Force''; and
            (2) in section 1007--
                    (A) in subsections (b), (d), (f), and (g), by 
                striking ``or the Air Force'' and inserting ``, the Air 
                Force, or the Space Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e), by striking ``or Marine 
                Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.

SEC. 1718. TITLE 38, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) References to Military, Naval, or Air Service Amended To Add 
Space Service.--Title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``or air service'' and inserting ``air, or space service'' each place 
it appears in the following provisions:
            (1) Paragraphs (2), (5), (12), (16), (17), (18), and (24) 
        of section 101.
            (2) Section 105.
            (3) Section 106.
            (4) Section 1101.
            (5) Section 1103.
            (6) Section 1110.
            (7) Section 1112.
            (8) Section 1113.
            (9) Section 1131.
            (10) Section 1132.
            (11) Section 1133.
            (12) Section 1137.
            (13) Section 1141.
            (14) Section 1153.
            (15) Section 1154.
            (16) Section 1301.
            (17) Section 1302.
            (18) Section 1310.
            (19) Section 1521(j).
            (20) Section 1541(h).
            (21) Section 1703.
            (22) Section 1710(a)(2)(B).
            (23) Section 1712.
            (24) Section 1712A.
            (25) Section 1717.
            (26) Section 1720A.
            (27) Section 1720D.
            (28) Section 1720E(a).
            (29) Section 1720G.
            (30) Section 1720I.
            (31) Section 1781.
            (32) Section 1783.
            (33) Section 1922.
            (34) Section 2002.
            (35) Section 2101A.
            (36) Section 2301.
            (37) Section 2302.
            (38) Section 2303.
            (39) Section 2306.
            (40) Section 2402(a)(1).
            (41) Section 3018B.
            (42) Section 3102.
            (43) Section 3103.
            (44) Section 3113.
            (45) Section 3501.
            (46) Section 3512.
            (47) Section 3679.
            (48) Section 3701.
            (49) Section 3712.
            (50) Section 3729.
            (51) Section 3901.
            (52) Section 5103A.
            (53) Section 5110.
            (54) Section 5111.
            (55) Section 5113.
            (56) Section 5303.
            (57) Section 6104.
            (58) Section 6105.
            (59) Section 6301.
            (60) Section 6303.
            (61) Section 6304.
            (62) Section 8301.
    (b) Definitions.--
            (1) Armed forces.--Paragraph (10) of section 101 of such 
        title is amended by inserting ``Space Force,'' after ``Air 
        Force,''.
            (2) Secretary concerned.--Paragraph (25)(C) of such section 
        is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' before the 
        semicolon.
            (3) Former prisoner of war.--Paragraph (32) of such section 
        is amended by striking ``naval or air service'' and inserting 
        ``naval, air, or space service''.
    (c) Placement of Employees in Military Installations.--Section 701 
of such title is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and Air Force'' and inserting ``Air 
        Force, and Space Force''; and
            (2) by striking ``or air service'' and inserting ``air, or 
        space service''.
    (d) Special Provisions Relating to Pension.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1562(a) of such title is amended 
        by inserting ``Space Force,'' after ``Air Force,'' both places 
        it appears.
            (2) Subchapter heading.--The heading of subchapter IV of 
        chapter 15 of such title is amended by inserting ``SPACE 
        FORCE,'' after ``AIR FORCE,'', and the item relating to such 
        subchapter in the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 
        15 of such title is amended by inserting ``SPACE FORCE,'' after 
        ``AIR FORCE,''.
    (e) Premium Payments.--Section 1908 of such title is amended by 
inserting ``Space Force'' after ``Marine Corps,''.
    (f) Secretary Concerned.--Section 3020(l)(3) of such title is 
amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' before the semicolon.
    (g) Definitions.--Section 3301(2)(C) of such title is amended by 
inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
    (h) Provision of Credit Protection and Other Services.--Section 
5724(c)(2) of such title is amended by striking ``or Marine Corps'' and 
inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.

SEC. 1719. TITLE 41, UNITED STATES CODE.

    Section 6309 of title 41, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``Space Force,'' after ``Marine Corps,''.

SEC. 1720. TITLE 51, UNITED STATES CODE.

    Section 20113(l) of title 51, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``and Marine Corps'' and inserting ``, Marine Corps, and Space 
Force''.

SEC. 1721. OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW.

    (a) Secretary of Defense Authority.--The authority of the Secretary 
of Defense with respect to the Air Force or members of the Air Force 
under any covered provision of law may be exercised by the Secretary 
with respect to the Space Force or members of the Space Force.
    (b) Secretary of Air Force Authority.--The authority of the 
Secretary of the Air Force with respect to the Air Force or members of 
the Air Force under any covered provision of law may be exercised with 
respect to the Space Force or members of the Space Force.
    (c) Benefits for Members.--A member of the Space Force shall be 
eligible for any benefit under a covered provision of law that is 
available to a member of the Air Force under the same terms and 
conditions as the provision of law applies to members of the Air Force.
    (d) Covered Provision of Law Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered provision of law'' means a provision of law other than a 
provision of title 5, 10, 14, 18, 31, 37, 38, 41, or 51, United States 
Code.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020''.

SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE 
              SPECIFIED BY LAW.

    (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Five Years.--Except as 
provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI 
through XXVII for military construction projects, land acquisition, 
family housing projects and facilities, and contributions to the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and 
authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the later 
of--
            (1) October 1, 2024; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for military construction for fiscal year 2025.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations 
for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing 
projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of 
appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been 
obligated before the later of--
            (1) October 1, 2024; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for fiscal year 2025 for military construction projects, land 
        acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
        contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        Security Investment Program.

SEC. 2003. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Titles XXI through XXVII and title XXIX shall take effect on the 
later of--
            (1) October 1, 2019; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of this Act.

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 3002, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                        Installation                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.....................................  Redstone Arsenal.................................      $38,000,000
Colorado....................................  Fort Carson, Colorado............................      $71,000,000
Georgia.....................................  Fort Gordon......................................     $107,000,000
                                              Hunter Army Airfield.............................      $62,000,000
Kentucky....................................  Fort Campbell....................................      $61,300,000
 Massachusetts..............................  Soldier Systems Center Natick....................      $50,000,000
Michigan....................................  Detroit Arsenal..................................      $24,000,000
New York....................................  Fort Drum........................................      $23,000,000
North Carolina..............................  Fort Bragg.......................................      $12,500,000
Oklahoma....................................  Fort Sill........................................      $73,000,000
Pennsylvania................................  Carlisle Barracks................................      $98,000,000
South Carolina..............................  Fort Jackson.....................................      $54,000,000
Texas.......................................  Corpus Christi Army Depot........................      $86,000,000
                                              Fort Hood........................................      $32,000,000
Virginia....................................  Fort Belvoir.....................................      $60,000,000
                                              Joint Base Langley-Eustis........................      $55,000,000
Washington..................................  Joint Base Lewis-McChord.........................      $46,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 3002, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out the military construction 
project for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                       Installation                        Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Honduras......................................  Soto Cano Air Base.............................      $34,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.

    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 3002, the Secretary of the Army may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:

                                              Army: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/ Country                      Installation                   Units                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pennsylvania...........................  Tobyhanna Army Depot.......  Family Housing                 $19,000,000
                                                                       Replacement Construction
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 3002, the Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $9,222,000.

SEC. 2103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2018, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Army as specified in the 
funding table in section 3002.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2101 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 3002.

SEC. 2104. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2019 PROJECT.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2019 (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. xxxx) for Anniston 
Army Depot, Alabama, for construction of a weapon maintenance shop, the 
Secretary of the Army may construct a 21,000 square foot weapon 
maintenance shop.

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 3002, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                  Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.....................................  Yuma.............................................      $90,160,000
California..................................  Camp Pendleton...................................     $185,569,000
                                              China Lake.......................................      $64,500,000
                                              Coronado.........................................      $86,830,000
                                              Seal Beach.......................................      $95,310,000
                                              Travis Air Force Base............................      $64,000,000
Connecticut.................................  New London.......................................      $72,260,000
Florida.....................................  Jacksonville.....................................      $32,420,000
Hawaii......................................  Kaneohe Bay......................................     $134,050,000
                                              West Loch........................................      $53,790,000
North Carolina..............................  Camp Lejeune.....................................     $229,010,000
                                              Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station............     $114,570,000
                                              New River........................................      $11,320,000
Virginia....................................  Norfolk..........................................      $79,100,000
                                              Portsmouth.......................................      $48,930,000
                                              Quantico.........................................     $143,350,000
Washington..................................  Bremerton........................................      $51,010,000
                                              Keyport..........................................      $25,050,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 3002, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installation or location outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahrain Island................................  SW Asia........................................      $53,360,000
Guam..........................................  Joint Region Marianas..........................     $226,000,000
Italy.........................................  Sigonella......................................      $77,400,000
Japan.........................................  Iwakuni........................................      $15,870,000
                                                Yokosuka.......................................     $174,692,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military family 
housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 3002, 
the Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural and engineering 
services and construction design activities with respect to the 
construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to 
exceed $5,863,000.

SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2204(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 3002, the Secretary of the 
Navy may improve existing military family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $41,798,000.

SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Navy, as specified in the 
funding table in section 3002.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2201 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 3002.

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 3002, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                       Air Force: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                  Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska......................................  Eielson Air Force Base...........................       $8,600,000
Arkansas....................................  Little Rock Air Force Base.......................      $47,000,000
California..................................  Travis Air Force Base............................      $26,100,000
Colorado....................................  Schriever Air Force Base.........................     $148,000,000
Illinois....................................  Scott Air Force Base.............................     $100,000,000
Montana.....................................  Malmstrom Air Force Base.........................     $235,000,000
Nevada......................................  Nellis Air Force Base............................      $65,200,000
New Mexico..................................  Kirtland Air Force Base..........................      $37,900,000
North Dakota................................  Minot Air Force Base.............................       $5,500,000
Texas.......................................  Joint Base San Antonio...........................     $207,300,000
Utah........................................  Hill Air Force Base..............................     $114,500,000
Washington..................................  Fairchild Air Force Base.........................      $31,000,000
Wyoming.....................................  F. E. Warren Air Force Base......................      $18,100,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 3002, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installation or location outside the United States, 
and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australia.....................................  Tindal.........................................      $70,600,000
Cyprus........................................  Royal Air Force Akrotiri.......................      $27,000,000
Guam..........................................  Joint Region Marianas..........................      $65,000,000
Japan.........................................  Yokota Air Base................................      $12,400,000
Jordan........................................  Azraq..........................................      $66,000,000
Mariana Islands...............................  Tinian.........................................     $316,000,000
United Kingdom................................  Royal Air Force Lakenheath.....................      $14,300,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military family 
housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 3002, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out architectural and 
engineering services and construction design activities with respect to 
the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $3,409,000.

SEC. 2303. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2304(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 3002, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may improve existing military family housing units in an 
amount not to exceed $53,584,000.

SEC. 2304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Air Force, as specified in 
the funding table in section 3002.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2301 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 3002.

SEC. 2305. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2015 PROJECT.

     In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2015 (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3679) for Royal Air 
Force Croughton, for JIAC Consolidation Phase 1, the location shall be 
Royal Air Force Molesworth.

SEC. 2306. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2016 PROJECT.

     In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (division B of Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1153), as modified by 
section 2305 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. xxxx) for an 
unspecified location in the United Kingdom, for JIAC Consolidation 
Phase 2, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 5,152 square 
meter Intelligence Analytic Center, a 5,234 square meter Intelligence 
Fusion Center, and a 807 square meter Battlefield Information 
Collection and Exploitation System Center at Royal Air Force 
Molesworth, United Kingdom.

SEC. 2307. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2017 PROJECT.

     In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2017 (division B of Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2697), as modified by 
section 2305 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. xxxx) for an 
unspecified location in the United Kingdom, for JIAC Consolidation 
Phase 3, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 1,562 square 
meter Regional Joint Intelligence Training Facility and a 4,495 square 
meter Combatant Command Intelligence Facility at Royal Air Force 
Molesworth, United Kingdom.

SEC. 2308. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2018 PROJECTS.

    (a) Joint Base San Antonio.--In the case of the authorization 
contained in the table in section 2301(a) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 115-
91; 131 Stat. 1826) for Joint Base San Antonio, Texas, for construction 
of a Dining and Classroom Facility, the Secretary of the Air Force may 
construct a 750 square meter equipment building.
    (b) Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland.--In the case of the 
authorization contained in table in section 2301(a) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of 
Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1825) for Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, 
Texas, for construction of an Air Traffic Control Tower, the Secretary 
of the Air Force may construct a 636 square meter air traffic control 
tower.
    (c) Incirlik Air Base.--In the case of the authorization contained 
in the table in section 2903 of the Military Construction Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1876) for Incirlik Air Base, Turkey, for Relocating Main Base Main 
Access Control Point, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 
176 square meter pedestrian search building.
    (d) Rygge Air Station.--In the case of the authorization contained 
in the table in section 2903 of the Military Construction Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1876) for Rygge Air Station, Norway, for Repair and Expand Quick 
Reaction Alert Pad, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct 1,327 
square meters of Aircraft Shelter and a 404 square meter fire 
protection support building.

SEC. 2309. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2019 PROJECTS.

    (a) Hanscom Air Force Base.--In the case of the authorization 
contained in the table in section 2301(a) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115-
232; 132 Stat. xxxx) for Hanscom Air Force Base, Massachusetts, for the 
construction of a semi-conductor/microelectronics lab facility, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 1,000 kilowatt stand-by 
generator.
    (b) Royal Air Force Lakenheath.--In the case of the authorization 
contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115-
232; 132 Stat. xxxx) for Royal Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom, 
for the construction of an F-35 Dormitory, the Secretary of the Air 
Force may construct a 5,900 square meter dormitory.

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 3002, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                  Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California..................................  Beale Air Force Base.............................      $33,700,000
                                              Camp Pendleton...................................      $17,700,000
CONUS Classified............................  Classified Location..............................      $82,200,000
Florida.....................................  Eglin Air Force Base.............................      $16,500,000
                                              Hurlburt Field...................................     $108,386,000
                                              Key West.........................................      $16,000,000
Hawaii......................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam...................      $67,700,000
Maryland....................................  Fort Detrick.....................................      $27,846,000
Mississippi.................................  Columbus Air Force Base..........................      $16,800,000
North Carolina..............................  Camp Lejeune.....................................      $13,400,000
                                              Fort Bragg.......................................      $84,103,000
Oklahoma....................................  Tulsa International Airport......................      $18,900,000
Rhode Island................................  Quonset State Airport............................      $11,600,000
South Carolina..............................  Joint Base Charleston............................      $33,300,000
South Dakota                                  Ellsworth Air Force Base.........................      $24,800,000
Virginia....................................  Dam Neck.........................................      $12,770,000
                                              Def Distribution Depot Richmond..................      $98,800,000
                                              Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek - Story....      $45,604,000
                                              Pentagon.........................................      $28,802,000
Washington..................................  Joint Base Lewis-McChord.........................      $47,700,000
Wisconsin...................................  General Mitchell International Airport...........      $25,900,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 3002, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.......................................  Geilenkirchen Air Base.........................      $30,479,000
Guam..........................................  Joint Region Marianas..........................      $19,200,000
Japan.........................................  Yokota Air Base................................     $136,411,000
Worldwide Classified..........................  Classified Location............................      $52,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2402. AUTHORIZED ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTS.

     Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for energy conservation 
projects as specified in the funding table in section 3002, the 
Secretary of Defense may carry out energy conservation projects under 
chapter 173 of title 10, United States Code, in the amount set forth in 
the table.

SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments), as specified in the funding table in section 3002.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2401 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 3002.

                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to 
exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this 
purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously 
financed by the United States.

SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.

    (a) Authorization.--Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2019, for contributions 
by the Secretary of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United 
States Code, for the share of the United States of the cost of projects 
for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program 
authorized by section 2501 as specified in the funding table in section 
3002.
    (b) Authority To Recognize NATO Authorization Amounts as Budgetary 
Resources for Project Execution.--When the United States is designated 
as the Host Nation for the purposes of executing a project under the 
NATO Security Investment Program (NSIP), the Department of Defense 
construction agent may recognize the NATO project authorization amounts 
as budgetary resources to incur obligations for the purposes of 
executing the NSIP project.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

SEC. 2511. REPUBLIC OF KOREA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

    Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Korea for required in-
kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military 
construction projects for the installations or locations, set forth in 
the following table:

                                 Republic of Korea Funded Construction Projects
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         Installation  or
             Country                   Component             Location              Project            Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Korea...........................  Army...............  Camp Carroll........  Army Prepositioned      $51,000,000
                                                                              Stock-4 Wheeled
                                                                              Vehicle
                                                                              Maintenance
                                                                              Facility..........
                                  Army...............  Camp Humphreys......  Unaccompanied          $154,000,000
                                                                              Enlisted Personnel
                                                                              Housing, P1.......
                                  Army...............  Camp Humphreys......  Unaccompanied          $211,000,000
                                                                              Enlisted Personnel
                                                                              Housing, P2.......
                                  Army...............  Camp Humphreys......  Satellite               $32,000,000
                                                                              Communications
                                                                              Facility..........
                                  Air Force..........  Gwangju Air Base....  Hydrant Fuel System     $35,000,000
                                  Air Force..........  Kunsan Air Base.....  Upgrade Electrical      $14,200,000
                                                                              Distribution
                                                                              System............
                                  Air Force..........  Kunsan Air Base.....  Dining Facility....     $21,000,000
                                  Air Force..........  Suwon Air Base......  Hydrant Fuel System     $24,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 3002, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army National Guard locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                               Army National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.....................................  Foley............................................      $12,000,000
California..................................  Camp Roberts.....................................      $12,000,000
Idaho.......................................  Orchard Training Area............................      $29,000,000
Maryland....................................  Havre De Grace...................................      $12,000,000
Massachusetts...............................  Camp Edwards.....................................       $9,700,000
Minnesota...................................  New Ulm..........................................      $11,200,000
Mississippi.................................  Camp Shelby......................................       $8,100,000
Missouri....................................  Springfield......................................      $12,000,000
Nebraska....................................  Bellevue.........................................      $29,000,000
New Hampshire...............................  Concord..........................................       $5,950,000
Pennsylvania................................  Moon Township....................................      $23,000,000
Washington..................................  Richland.........................................      $11,400,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 3002, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army Reserve locations inside the United 
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                                  Army Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Delaware....................................  Dover Air Force Base.............................      $21,000,000
Wisconsin...................................  Fort McCoy.......................................      $25,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE 
              CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 3002, the 
Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in 
the following table:

                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Louisiana...................................  New Orleans......................................      $25,260,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 3002, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air National Guard locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                               Air National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia.....................................  Savannah/Hilton Head International Airport.......      $24,000,000
Missouri....................................  Rosecrans Memorial Airport.......................       $9,500,000
Wisconsin...................................  Truax Field......................................      $34,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 3002, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air Force Reserve locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                                Air Force Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia.....................................  Robins Air Force Base............................      $43,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2019, for the costs of acquisition, 
architectural and engineering services, and construction of facilities 
for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor, under 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of 
acquisition of land for those facilities), as specified in the funding 
table in section 3002.

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 2701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
              CLOSURE ACTIVITIES FUNDED THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              BASE CLOSURE ACCOUNT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2019, for base realignment and closure 
activities, including real property acquisition and military 
construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base 
Closure Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended by 
section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2140)), as 
specified in the funding table in section 3002.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 2801. REVISION TO ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICES AND 
              CONSTRUCTION DESIGN AUTHORITY.

    Section 2807(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``$1,000,000'' and inserting ``$5,000,000''.

SEC. 2802. EXPANSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY FOR ACCEPTANCE AND USE OF 
              CONTRIBUTIONS FOR CERTAIN CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, AND 
              REPAIR PROJECTS MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL TO THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE AND THE MILITARY FORCES OF KUWAIT AND THE 
              REPUBLIC OF KOREA.

    Section 2804 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 2350j note) is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``kuwait military forces'' 
        and inserting ``the military forces of kuwait and the republic 
        of korea'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``government of Kuwait'' and 
                inserting ``government of Kuwait and the Republic of 
                Korea''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Kuwait military forces'' and 
                inserting ``military forces of the contributing 
                country'';
            (3) in subsection (b), by inserting ``for contributions 
        from the contributing country'' after ``Secretary of Defense'';
            (4) in subsection (c), by striking ``government of Kuwait'' 
        and inserting ``government of the contributing country''; and
            (5) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``government of 
                Kuwait'' and inserting ``government of the contributing 
                country''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``Kuwait military forces'' and inserting 
                        ``military forces of the contributing 
                        country''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                        ``Kuwait military forces'' and inserting 
                        ``military forces of the contributing 
                        country''.

SEC. 2803. AUTHORIZED COST VARIATIONS FOR UNSPECIFIED MINOR MILITARY 
              CONSTRUCTION.

    Section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
     (a) in subsection (a)--
            (1) by striking ``the cost authorized for a military 
        construction project'' and all that follows;
            (2) by adding a new subsection (a)(1) as follows:
            ``(1) the cost authorized for a military construction 
        project or for the construction, improvement, and acquisition 
        of a military family housing project may be increased or 
        decreased by not more than 25 percent of the amount 
        appropriated for such project or 200 percent of the minor 
        construction project ceiling specified in section 2805(a) of 
        this title, whichever is less, if the Secretary concerned 
        determines that such revised cost is required for the sole 
        purpose of meeting unusual variations in cost and that such 
        variations in cost could not have reasonably been anticipated 
        at the time the project was authorized by Congress; and''; and
            (3) by adding a new subsection (a)(2) as follows:
            ``(2) the cost of an unspecified minor military 
        construction project undertaken pursuant to section 2805(b)(1) 
        or section 2805(d) of this title may be increased above the 
        applicable ceiling in section 2805(a)(2) or section 2805(d)(1) 
        of this title by not more than 25 percent of such ceiling, if 
        the Secretary concerned determines that such revised cost is 
        required for the sole purpose of meeting unusual and 
        unanticipated variations in cost occurring after award of the 
        project.'';
    (b) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (c)(1);
    (c) in the newly redesignated subsection (c)(1)--
            (1) by striking ``The limitation on'' and inserting ``The 
        limitations on the amount of'';
            (2) by striking ``or'' and inserting ``and'';
            (3) by striking ``does'' and inserting ``do'';
            (4) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) respectively; and
            (5) in the redesignated subparagraph (A), by redesignating 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii) respectively; 
        and
    (d) by adding a new subsection (c)(2) as follows:
            ``(2) An unspecified minor military construction project 
        undertaken pursuant to section 2805(b)(1) or section 2805(d) 
        may be decreased in cost or reduced in scope at the discretion 
        of the Secretary concerned.''.

SEC. 2804. MODIFICATION OF ALTERNATIVE AUTHORITY FOR ACQUISITION AND 
              IMPROVEMENT OF MILITARY HOUSING.

    Section 2872a(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(13) Street sweeping.
            ``(14) Tree trimming and removal.''.

   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2901. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction projects for the installations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                       Installation                        Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cuba..........................................  Guantanamo Bay.................................     $122,300,000
Worldwide Unspecified.........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations................      $42,200,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2902. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction projects for the installations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                       Installation                        Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Spain.........................................  Rota...........................................      $69,570,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2903. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry 
out the military construction projects for the installations outside 
the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                       Installation                        Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Iceland.......................................  Keflavik.......................................      $57,000,000
Spain.........................................  Moron..........................................       $8,500,000
Worldwide Unspecified.........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations................     $175,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2904. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction projects for the installations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                       Installation                        Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.......................................  Gemersheim.....................................      $46,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2905. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2019, for the military construction 
projects outside the United States authorized by this title as 
specified in the funding table in section 3003.

                TITLE XXX--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FUNDING

SEC. 3001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES.

    (a) In General.--Whenever a funding table in this title specifies a 
dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or activity, the 
obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount for the 
project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to the 
availability of appropriations.
    (b) Merit-Based Decisions.--A decision to commit, obligate, or 
expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar 
amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
            (1) be based on merit-based selection procedures in 
        accordance with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 
        of title 10, United States Code, or on competitive procedures; 
        and
            (2) comply with other applicable provisions of law.
    (c) Relationship to Transfer and Programming Authority.--An amount 
specified in the funding tables in this title may be transferred or 
reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by 
another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or 
reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not 
count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under any 
other provision of this Act or any other provision of law, unless such 
transfer or reprogramming would move funds between appropriation 
accounts.
    (d) Applicability to Classified Annex.--This section applies to any 
classified annex that accompanies this Act.
    (e) Oral and Written Communications.--No oral or written 
communication concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in 
this division shall supersede the requirements of this section.

SEC. 3002. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION TABLE.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
       SEC. 3002. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State/Country                           FY 2020
      Account       and Installation     Project Title    Budget Request
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Alabama
Army                   Redstone       Aircraft and                38,000
                        Arsenal        Flight Equipment
                                       Building.
                    Colorado
Army                   Fort Carson    Company Operations          71,000
                                       Facility.
                    Georgia
Army                   Fort Gordon    Cyber                      107,000
                                       Instructional Fac
                                       (Admin/Command).
Army                   Hunter Army    Aircraft                    62,000
                        Airfield       Maintenance
                                       Hangar.
                    Hawaii
Army                   Fort Shafter   Command and                 60,000
                                       Control Facility,
                                       Incr 5.
                    Honduras
Army                   Soto Cano AB   Aircraft                    34,000
                                       Maintenance
                                       Hangar.
                    Kentucky
Army                   Fort Campbell  Automated Infantry           7,100
                                       Platoon Battle
                                       Course.
Army                   Fort Campbell  Easements.........           3,200
Army                   Fort Campbell  General Purpose             51,000
                                       Maintenance Shop.
                    Massachusetts
Army                   Soldier        Human Engineering           50,000
                        Systems        Lab.
                        Center
                        Natick
                    Michigan
Army                   Detroit        Substation........          24,000
                        Arsenal
                    New York
Army                   Fort Drum      Unmanned Aerial             23,000
                                       Vehicle Hangar.
                    North Carolina
Army                   Fort Bragg     Dining Facility...          12,500
                    Oklahoma
Army                   Fort Sill      Adv Individual              73,000
                                       Training Barracks
                                       Cplx, Ph2.
                    Pennsylvania
Army                   Carlisle       General                     98,000
                        Barracks       Instruction
                                       Building.
                    South Carolina
Army                   Fort Jackson   Reception Complex,          54,000
                                       Ph2.
                    Texas
Army                   Corpus         Powertrain                  86,000
                        Christi Army   Facility (Machine
                        Depot          Shop).
Army                   Fort Hood      Barracks..........          32,000
                    Virginia
Army                   Fort Belvoir   Secure Operations           60,000
                                       and Admin
                                       Facility.
Army                   Joint Base     Adv Individual              55,000
                        Langley-       Training Barracks
                        Eustis         Cplx, Ph4.
                    Washington
Army                   Joint Base     Information                 46,000
                        Lewis-         Systems Facility.
                        McChord
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
Army                   Unspecified    Host Nation                 31,000
                        Worldwide      Support.
                        Locations
Army                   Unspecified    Planning and                94,099
                        Worldwide      Design.
                        Locations
Army                   Unspecified    Unspecified Minor           70,600
                        Worldwide      Construction.
                        Locations
Army                   Unspecified    Unspecified                211,000
                        Worldwide      Worldwide
                        Locations      Construction.
Total Military Construction, Army                              1,453,499
                       .............
                    Arizona
Navy                   Yuma           Hangar 95                   90,160
                                       Renovation &
                                       Addition.
                    Bahrain Island
Navy                   SW Asia        Electrical System           53,360
                                       Upgrade.
                    California
Navy                   Camp           62 Area Mess Hall           71,700
                        Pendleton      and Consolidated
                                       Warehouse.
Navy                   Camp           I MEF Consolidated         113,869
                        Pendleton      Information
                                       Center.
Navy                   China Lake     Runway & Taxiway            64,500
                                       Extension.
Navy                   Coronado       Navy V-22 Hangar..          86,830
Navy                   San Diego      Pier 8 Replacement          59,353
                                       (INC).
Navy                   Seal Beach     Ammunition Pier...          95,310
Navy                   Travis AFB     Alert Force                 64,000
                                       Complex.
                    Connecticut
Navy                   New London     SSN Berthing Pier           72,260
                                       32.
                    District of
                     Columbia
Navy                   Naval          Master Time Clocks          75,600
                        Observatory    & Operations Fac
                                       (INC).
                    Florida
Navy                   Jacksonville   Targeting &                 32,420
                                       Surveillance Syst
                                       Prod Supp Fac.
                    Guam
Navy                   Joint Region   Bachelor Enlisted          164,100
                        Marianas       Quarters H.
Navy                   Joint Region   EOD Compound                61,900
                        Marianas       Facilities.
Navy                   Joint Region   Machine Gun Range           91,287
                        Marianas       (INC).
                    Hawaii
Navy                   Kaneohe Bay    Bachelor Enlisted          134,050
                                       Quarters.
Navy                   West Loch      Magazine                    53,790
                                       Consolidation,
                                       Phase 1.
                    Italy
Navy                   Sigonella      Communications              77,400
                                       Station.
                    Japan
Navy                   Iwakuni        VTOL Pad - South..          15,870
Navy                   Yokosuka       Pier 5 (Berths 2           174,692
                                       and 3).
                    North Carolina
Navy                   Camp Lejeune   10th Marines                35,110
                                       HIMARS Complex.
Navy                   Camp Lejeune   2nd MARDIV/2nd MLG          60,130
                                       Ops Center
                                       Replacement.
Navy                   Camp Lejeune   2nd Radio BN                25,650
                                       Complex, Phase 2
                                       (INC).
Navy                   Camp Lejeune   ACV-AAV                     11,570
                                       Maintenance
                                       Facility Upgrades.
Navy                   Camp Lejeune   II MEF Operations          122,200
                                       Center
                                       Replacement.
Navy                   Cherry Point   Aircraft                    73,970
                        Marine Corps   Maintenance
                        Air Station    Hangar (INC).
Navy                   Cherry Point   ATC Tower &                 61,340
                        Marine Corps   Airfield
                        Air Station    Operations.
Navy                   Cherry Point   F-35 Training and           53,230
                        Marine Corps   Simulator
                        Air Station    Facility.
Navy                   Cherry Point   Flightline Utility          51,860
                        Marine Corps   Modernization
                        Air Station    (INC).
Navy                   New River      CH-53K Cargo                11,320
                                       Loading Trainer.
                    Utah
Navy                   Hill AFB       D5 Missile Motor            50,520
                                       Receipt/Storage
                                       Fac (INC).
                    Virginia
Navy                   Norfolk        Mariner Skills              79,100
                                       Training Center.
Navy                   Portsmouth     Dry Dock Flood              48,930
                                       Protection
                                       Improvements.
Navy                   Quantico       Wargaming Center..         143,350
                    Washington
Navy                   Bremerton      Dry Dock 4 & Pier           51,010
                                       3 Modernization.
Navy                   Keyport        Undersea Vehicle            25,050
                                       Maintenance
                                       Facility.
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
Navy                   Unspecified    Planning and               167,715
                        Worldwide      Design.
                        Locations
Navy                   Unspecified    Unspecified Minor           81,237
                        Worldwide      Construction.
                        Locations
Total Military Construction, Navy                              2,805,743
                    ................
                    Alaska
AF                     Eielson AFB    F-35 AME Storage             8,600
                                       Facility.
                    Arkansas
AF                     Little Rock    C-130H/J Fuselage           47,000
                        AFB            Trainer Facility.
                    Australia
AF                     Tindal         APR - RAAF Tindal/          11,600
                                       Earth Covered
                                       Magazine.
AF                     Tindal         APR-RAAF Tindal/            59,000
                                       Bulk Storage
                                       Tanks.
                    California
AF                     Travis AFB     KC-46A Alter B181/           6,600
                                       B185/B187 Squad
                                       Ops/AMU.
AF                     Travis AFB     KC-46A Regional             19,500
                                       Maintenance
                                       Training Facility.
                    Colorado
AF                     Schriever AFB  Consolidated Space         148,000
                                       Operations
                                       Facility.
                    Cyprus
AF                     RAF Akrotiri   New Dormitory for           27,000
                                       1 ERS.
                    Guam
AF                     Joint Region   Munitions Storage           65,000
                        Marianas       Igloos III.
                    Illinois
AF                     Scott AFB      Joint Operations &         100,000
                                       Mission Planning
                                       Center.
                    Japan
AF                     Yokota AB      Fuel Receipt &              12,400
                                       Distribution
                                       Upgrade.
                    Jordan
AF                     Azraq          Air Traffic                 24,000
                                       Control Tower.
AF                     Azraq          Munitions Storage           42,000
                                       Area.
                    Mariana Islands
AF                     Tinian         Airfield                   109,000
                                       Development Phase
                                       1.
AF                     Tinian         Fuel Tanks w/              109,000
                                       Pipeline/Hydrant
                                       System.
AF                     Tinian         Parking Apron.....          98,000
                    Maryland
AF                     Joint Base     Presidential                86,000
                        Andrews        Aircraft Recap
                                       Complex Inc 3.
                    Massachusetts
AF                     Hanscom AFB    MIT-Lincoln Lab            135,000
                                       (West Lab CSL/
                                       MIF) Inc 2.
                    Montana
AF                     Malmstrom AFB  Weapons Storage            235,000
                                       and Maintenance
                                       Facility.
                    Nevada
AF                     Nellis AFB     365th ISR Group             57,000
                                       Facility.
AF                     Nellis AFB     F-35A Munitions              8,200
                                       Assembly Conveyor
                                       Facility.
                    New Mexico
AF                     Kirtland AFB   Combat Rescue               15,500
                                       Helicopter
                                       Simulator (CRH)
                                       ADAL.
AF                     Kirtland AFB   UH-1 Replacement            22,400
                                       Facility.
                    North Dakota
AF                     Minot AFB      Helo/TRFOps/                 5,500
                                       AMUFacility.
                    Ohio
AF                     Wright-        ADAL Intelligence          120,900
                        Patterson      Prod. Complex
                        AFB            (NASIC) Inc 2.
                    Texas
AF                     Joint Base     Aquatics Tank.....          69,000
                        San Antonio
AF                     Joint Base     BMT Recruit                110,000
                        San Antonio    Dormitory 8.
AF                     Joint Base     T-XA DAL Ground              9,300
                        San Antonio    Based Trng Sys
                                       (GBTS) Sim.
AF                     Joint Base     T-XMX Trng Sys              19,000
                        San Antonio    Centrailized Trng
                                       Fac.
                    United Kingdom
AF                     Royal Air      F-35A PGM Facility          14,300
                        Force
                        Lakenheath
                    Utah
AF                     Hill AFB       GBSD Mission               108,000
                                       Integration
                                       Facility.
AF                     Hill AFB       Joint Advanced               6,500
                                       Tactical Missile
                                       Storage Fac.
                    Washington
AF                     Fairchild AFB  Consolidated TFI            31,000
                                       Base Operations.
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
AF                     Various        Planning and               142,148
                        Worldwide      Design.
                        Locations
AF                     Various        Unspecified Minor           79,682
                        Worldwide      Construction.
                        Locations
                    Wyoming
AF                     F. E. Warren   Consolidated Helo/          18,100
                        AFB            TRF Ops/AMU and
                                       Alert Fac.
Total Military Construction, Air Force                         2,179,230
                    ................
                    California
Def - Wide             Beale AFB      Hydrant Fuel                33,700
                                       System
                                       Replacement.
Def - Wide             Camp           Ambul Care Center/          17,700
                        Pendleton      Dental Clinic
                                       Replacement.
                    CONUS Classified
Def - Wide             Classified     Battalion Complex,          82,200
                        Location       Ph 3.
                    Florida
Def - Wide             Eglin AFB      SOF Combined                16,500
                                       Squadron Ops
                                       Facility.
Def - Wide             Hurlburt       SOF AMU & Weapons           72,923
                        Field          Hangar.
Def - Wide             Hurlburt       SOF Combined                16,513
                        Field          Squadron
                                       Operations
                                       Facility.
Def - Wide             Hurlburt       SOF Maintenance             18,950
                        Field          Training Facility.
Def - Wide             Key West       SOF Watercraft              16,000
                                       Maintenance
                                       Facility.
                    Germany
Def - Wide             Geilenkirchen  Ambulatory Care             30,479
                        AB             Center/Dental
                                       Clinic.
                    Guam
Def - Wide             Joint Region   Xray Wharf                  19,200
                        Marianas       Refueling
                                       Facility.
                    Hawaii
Def - Wide             Joint Base     SOF Undersea                67,700
                        Pearl Harbor-  Operational
                        Hickam         Training Facility.
                    Japan
Def - Wide             Yokosuka       Kinnick High               130,386
                                       School Inc 2.
Def - Wide             Yokota AB      Bulk Storage Tanks         116,305
                                       PH1
Def - Wide             Yokota AB      Pacific East                20,106
                                       District
                                       Superintendent's
                                       Office.
                    Maryland
Def - Wide             Bethesda       MEDCEN Addition/            96,900
                        Naval          Altertion Incr 3.
                        Hospital
Def - Wide             Fort Detrick   Medical Research            27,846
                                       Acquisition
                                       Building.
Def - Wide             Fort Meade     NSAW Recapitalize          426,000
                                       Building #3 Inc 2.
                    Mississippi
Def - Wide             Columbus AFB   Fuel Facilities             16,800
                                       Replacement.
                    Missouri
Def - Wide             Fort Leonard   Hospital                    50,000
                        Wood           Replacement Incr
                                       2.
Def - Wide             St Louis       Next NGA West              218,800
                                       (N2W) Complex
                                       Phase 2 Inc. 2.
                    North Carolina
Def - Wide             Camp Lejeune   SOF Marine Raider           13,400
                                       Regiment HQ.
Def - Wide             Fort Bragg     SOF Assessment and          12,103
                                       Selection
                                       Training Complex.
Def - Wide             Fort Bragg     SOF Human Platform-         43,000
                                       Force Generation
                                       Facility.
Def - Wide             Fort Bragg     SOF Operations              29,000
                                       Support Bldg.
                    Oklahoma
Def - Wide             Tulsa IAP      Fuels Storage               18,900
                                       Complex.
                    Rhode Island
Def - Wide             Quonset State  Fuels Storage               11,600
                        Airport        Complex
                                       Replacement.
                    South Carolina
Def - Wide             Joint Base     Medical                     33,300
                        Charleston     Consolidated
                                       Storage & Distrib
                                       Center.
                    South Dakota
Def - Wide             Ellsworth AFB  Hydrant Fuel                24,800
                                       System
                                       Replacement.
                    Virginia
Def - Wide             Dam Neck       SOF Demolition              12,770
                                       Training Compound
                                       Expansion.
Def - Wide             Def            Operations Center           98,800
                        Distribution   Phase 2.
                        Depot
                        Richmond
Def - Wide             Joint          SOF NSWG-10                 32,600
                        Expeditionar   Operations
                        y Base         Support Facility.
                        Little Creek
                        - Story
Def - Wide             Joint          SOF NSWG2 JSOTF             13,004
                        Expeditionar   Ops Training
                        y Base         Facility.
                        Little Creek
                        - Story
Def - Wide             Pentagon       Backup Generator..           8,670
Def - Wide             Pentagon       Control Tower &             20,132
                                       Fire Day Station.
                    Washington
Def - Wide             Joint Base     SOF 22 STS                  47,700
                        Lewis-         Operations
                        McChord        Facility.
                    Wisconsin
Def - Wide             Gen Mitchell   POL Facilities              25,900
                        IAP            Replacement.
                    Worldwide
                     Classified
Def - Wide             Classified     Mission Support             52,000
                        Location       Compound.
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Contingency                 10,000
                        Worldwide      Construction.
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Unspecified    ERICP.............         150,000
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Exercise Related            11,770
                        Worldwide      Minor
                        Locations      Construction, TJS.
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Unspecified Minor            3,000
                        Worldwide      Construction,
                        Locations      Defense Level
                                       Activities.
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Unspecified Minor            8,000
                        Worldwide      Construction,
                        Locations      DODEA.
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Unspecified Minor           10,000
                        Worldwide      Construction, MDA.
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Unspecified Minor            3,228
                        Worldwide      Construction, NSA.
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Unspecified Minor           31,464
                        Worldwide      Construction,
                        Locations      SOCOM.
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Unspecified Minor            4,950
                        Worldwide      Construction, WHS.
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Unspecified    ERCIP Design......          10,000
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Planning and                14,400
                        Worldwide      Design, Defense
                        Locations      Level Activities.
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Planning and                29,679
                        Worldwide      Design, DODEA.
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Planning and                35,472
                        Worldwide      Design, MDA.
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Planning and                15,000
                        Worldwide      Design, NSA.
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Unspecified    Planning and                 4,890
                        Worldwide      Design, WHS.
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Various        Unspecified Minor           10,000
                        Worldwide      Construction, DHA.
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Various        Unspecified Minor           16,736
                        Worldwide      Construction, DLA.
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Various        Planning and                63,382
                        Worldwide      Design, DHA.
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Various        Planning and                27,000
                        Worldwide      Design, DLA.
                        Locations
Def - Wide             Various        Planning and                52,532
                        Worldwide      Design, SOCOM.
                        Locations
Total Military Construction, Defense-Wide                      2,504,190
                    ................
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
Def-Wide               Unspecified    Administrative                 500
                        Worldwide      Expenses - UHIF.
                        Locations
Total Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund                500
                    ................
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
Def-Wide               NATO Security  NATO Security              144,040
                        Investment     Investment
                        Program        Program.
Total NATO Security Investment Program                           144,040
                    ................
                    Alabama
Army NG                Foley          National Guard              12,000
                                       Readiness Center.
                    California
Army NG                Camp Roberts   Automated                   12,000
                                       Multipurpose
                                       Machine Gun Range.
                    Idaho
Army NG                Orchard        Railroad Tracks...          29,000
                        Training
                        Area
                    Maryland
Army NG                Havre De       Combined Support            12,000
                        Grace          Maintenance Shop.
                    Massachusetts
Army NG                Camp Edwards   Automated                    9,700
                                       Multipurpose
                                       Machine Gun Range.
                    Minnesota
Army NG                New Ulm        National Guard              11,200
                                       Vehicle
                                       Maintenance Shop.
                    Mississippi
Army NG                Camp Shelby    Automated                    8,100
                                       Multipurpose
                                       Machine Gun Range.
                    Missouri
Army NG                Springfield    National Guard              12,000
                                       Readiness Center.
                    Nebraska
Army NG                Bellevue       National Guard              29,000
                                       Readiness Center.
                    New Hampshire
Army NG                Concord        National Guard               5,950
                                       Readiness Center.
                    Pennsylvania
Army NG                Moon Township  Combined Support            23,000
                                       Maintenance Shop.
                    Washington
Army NG                Richland       National Guard              11,400
                                       Readiness Center.
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
Army NG                Unspecified    Planning and                20,469
                        Worldwide      Design.
                        Locations
Army NG                Unspecified    Unspecified Minor           15,000
                        Worldwide      Construction.
                        Locations
Total Military Construction, Army National Guard                 210,819
                    ................
                    Delaware
Army Res               Dover AFB      Army Reserve                21,000
                                       Center/BMA.
                    Wisconsin
Army Res               Fort McCoy     Transient Training          25,000
                                       Barracks.
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
Army Res               Unspecified    Planning and                 6,000
                        Worldwide      Design.
                        Locations
Army Res               Unspecified    Unspecified Minor            8,928
                        Worldwide      Construction.
                        Locations
Total Military Construction, Army Reserve                         60,928
                    ................
                    Louisiana
Navy Res               New Orleans    Entry Control               25,260
                                       Facility Upgrades.
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
Navy Res               Unspecified    Planning and                 4,780
                        Worldwide      Design.
                        Locations
Navy Res               Unspecified    Unspecified Minor           24,915
                        Worldwide      Construction.
                        Locations
Total Military Construction, Naval Reserve                        54,955
                    ................
                    Georgia
Air NG                 Savannah/      Consolidated Joint          24,000
                        Hilton Head    Air Dominance
                        IAP            Hangar/Shops.
                    Missouri
Air NG                 Rosecrans      C-130 Flight                 9,500
                        Memorial       Simulator
                        Airport        Facility.
                    Puerto Rico
Air NG                 Luis Munoz-    Communications              12,500
                        Marin IAP      Facility.
Air NG                 Luis Munoz-    Maintenance Hangar          37,500
                        Marin IAP
                    Wisconsin
Air NG                 Truax Field    F-35 Simulator              14,000
                                       Facility.
Air NG                 Truax Field    Fighter Alert               20,000
                                       Shelters.
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
Air NG                 Unspecified    Unspecified Minor           31,471
                        Worldwide      Construction.
                        Locations
Air NG                 Various        Planning and                17,000
                        Worldwide      Design.
                        Locations
Total Military Construction, Air National Guard Total            165,971
                    ................
                    Georgia
AF Res                 Robins AFB     Consolidated                43,000
                                       Misssion Complex
                                       Phase 3.
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
AF Res                 Unspecified    Planning and                 4,604
                        Worldwide      Design.
                        Locations
AF Res                 Unspecified    Unspecified Minor           12,146
                        Worldwide      Construction.
                        Locations
Total Military Construction, Air Force Reserve                    59,750
                    ................
                    Germany
FH Con Army            Baumholder     Family Housing              29,983
                                       Improvements.
                    Korea
FH Con Army            Camp           Family Housing New          83,167
                        Humphreys      Construction Incr
                                       4.
                    Pennsylvania
FH Con Army            Tobyhanna      Family Housing              19,000
                        Army Depot     Replacement
                                       Construction.
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
FH Con Army            Unspecified    Family Housing P &           9,222
                        Worldwide      D.
                        Locations
Total Family Housing Construction, Army                          141,372
                    ................
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
FH Ops Army            Unspecified    Furnishings.......          24,027
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops Army            Unspecified    Housing                     18,627
                        Worldwide      Privatization
                        Locations      Support.
FH Ops Army            Unspecified    Leasing...........         128,938
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops Army            Unspecified    Maintenance.......          81,065
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops Army            Unspecified    Management........          38,898
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops Army            Unspecified    Miscellaneous.....             484
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops Army            Unspecified    Services..........          10,156
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops Army            Unspecified    Utilities.........          55,712
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
Total Family Housing Operation & Maintenance, Army               357,907
                    ................
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
FH Con Navy            Unspecified    Construction                41,798
                        Worldwide      Improvements.
                        Locations
FH Con Navy            Unspecified    Planning & Design.           3,863
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Con Navy            Unspecified    USMC DPRI/Guam               2,000
                        Worldwide      PLANNING AND
                        Locations      DESIGN.
Total Family Housing Construction, Navy                           47,611
                    ................
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
FH Ops Navy            Unspecified    Furnishings.......          19,012
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops Navy            Unspecified    Housing                     21,972
                        Worldwide      Privatization
                        Locations      Support.
FH Ops Navy            Unspecified    Leasing...........          64,126
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops Navy            Unspecified    Maintenance.......          82,611
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops Navy            Unspecified    Management........          50,122
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops Navy            Unspecified    Miscellaneous.....             151
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops Navy            Unspecified    Services..........          16,647
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops Navy            Unspecified    Utilities.........          63,229
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
Total Family Housing Operation & Maintenance, Navy &             317,870
 Marine Corps
                    ................
                    Germany
FH Con AF              Spangdahlem    Construct Deficit           53,584
                        AB             Military Family
                                       Housing.
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
FH Con AF              Unspecified    Construction                46,638
                        Worldwide      Improvements.
                        Locations
FH Con AF              Unspecified    Planning & Design.           3,409
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
Total Family Housing Construction, Air Force                     103,631
                    ................
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
FH Ops AF              Unspecified    Furnishings.......          30,283
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops AF              Unspecified    Housing                     22,593
                        Worldwide      Privatization.
                        Locations
FH Ops AF              Unspecified    Leasing...........          15,768
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops AF              Unspecified    Maintenance.......         117,704
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops AF              Unspecified    Management........          56,022
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops AF              Unspecified    Miscellaneous.....           2,144
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops AF              Unspecified    Services..........           7,770
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops AF              Unspecified    Utilities.........          42,732
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
Total Family Housing Operations & Maintenance, Air Force         295,016
                    ................
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
FH Ops DW              Unspecified    Furnishings.......             727
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops DW              Unspecified    Leasing...........          52,128
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops DW              Unspecified    Maintenance.......              32
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
FH Ops DW              Unspecified    Utilities.........           4,113
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
Total Family Housing Operations & Maintenance, Defense-           57,000
 Wide
                    ................
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
FH IF DW               Unspecified    Administrative               3,045
                        Worldwide      Expenses - FHIF.
                        Locations
Total Family Housing Improvement Fund, Defense-Wide                3,045
                    ................
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
BRAC                   Unspecified    Base Realignment &          66,111
                        Worldwide      Closure, Army.
                        Locations
BRAC                   Unspecified    Base Realignment &         158,349
                        Worldwide      Closure, Navy.
                        Locations
BRAC                   Unspecified    DoD BRAC                    54,066
                        Worldwide      Activities - Air
                        Locations      Force.
Total Base Realignment and Closure Account                       278,526
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 3003. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION TABLE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY 
              OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 3003. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State/Country                           FY 2020
      Account       and Installation     Project Title    Budget Request
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Cuba
Army                   Guantanamo     OCO:                        22,000
                        Bay Naval      Communications
                        Station        Facility.
Army                   Guantanamo     OCO: Detention              11,800
                        Bay Naval      Legal Office and
                        Station        Comms Ctr.
Army                   Guantanamo     OCO: High Value             88,500
                        Bay Naval      Detention
                        Station        Facility.
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
Army                   Unspecified    EDI/OCO Planning            19,498
                        Worldwide      and Design.
                        Locations
Army                   Unspecified    EDI: Bulk Fuel              36,000
                        Worldwide      Storage.
                        Locations
Army                   Unspecified    EDI: Information             6,200
                        Worldwide      Systems Facility.
                        Locations
Army                   Unspecified    EDI: Minor                   5,220
                        Worldwide      Construction.
                        Locations
Total Military Construction, Army                                189,218
                    ................
                    Spain
Navy                   Rota           EDI: In-Transit              9,960
                                       Munitions
                                       Facility.
Navy                   Rota           EDI: Joint                  46,840
                                       Mobility Center.
Navy                   Rota           EDI: Small Craft            12,770
                                       Berthing Facility.
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
Navy                   Unspecified    Planning and                25,000
                        Worldwide      Design.
                        Locations
Total Military Construction, Navy                                 94,570
                    ................
                    Iceland
AF                     Keflavik       EDI-Airfield                18,000
                                       Upgrades -
                                       Dangerous Cargo
                                       PAD.
AF                     Keflavik       EDI-Beddown Site             7,000
                                       Prep.
AF                     Keflavik       EDI-Expand Parking          32,000
                                       Apron.
                    Spain
AF                     Moron          EDI-Hot Cargo Pad.           8,500
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
AF                     Unspecified    EDI-ECAOS DABS/FEV         107,000
                        Worldwide      EMEDS Storage.
                        Locations
AF                     Unspecified    EDI-Hot Cargo Pad.          29,000
                        Worldwide
                        Locations
AF                     Unspecified    EDI-MUNITIONS               39,000
                        Worldwide      STORAGE AREA.
                        Locations
AF                     Various        EDI-Planning and            61,438
                        Worldwide      Design.
                        Locations
AF                     Various        EDI-Minor                   12,800
                        Worldwide      Construction.
                        Locations
Total Military Construction, Air Force                           314,738
                    ................
                    Germany
Def - Wide             Gemersheim     EDI: Logistics              46,000
                                       Distribution
                                       Center Annex.
Total Military Construction, Defense-Wide                         46,000
 
Total Military Construction For Overseas Contingency             644,526
 Operations
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 3004. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION TABLE FOR EMERGENCY FUNDING.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 3004. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR EMERGENCY FUNDING (In Thousands of
                                Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State/Country                           FY 2020
      Account       and Installation     Project Title    Budget Request
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Worldwide
                     Unspecified
Army                   Unspecified    Unspecified             $9,200,000
                        Worldwide      Worldwide
                        Locations      Construction.
Total Emergency Military Construction, Army                   $9,200,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
