<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6492 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6492

  To establish a climate resilience workforce, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 25, 2022

 Ms. Jayapal (for herself, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Bass, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
Bowman, Ms. Bush, Mr. Carson, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. 
   Connolly, Ms. Escobar, Mr. Garcia of Illinois, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
Huffman, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Jones, Ms. Lee of California, Mr. 
  Levin of Michigan, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Nadler, 
    Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Newman, Ms. Norton, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, Ms. 
  Pressley, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. 
 Takano, Ms. Tlaib, and Mrs. Watson Coleman) introduced the following 
 bill; which was referred to the Committee on Education and Labor, and 
  in addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, Oversight and 
  Reform, the Judiciary, Transportation and Infrastructure, Ways and 
 Means, Agriculture, Natural Resources, and Financial Services, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To establish a climate resilience workforce, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Climate Resilience Workforce Act''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
Sec. 4. Office of Climate Resilience.
Sec. 5. Climate Resilience Equity Advisory Board.
Sec. 6. Center for the Climate Resilience Workforce.
Sec. 7. Defining climate resilience sectors.
Sec. 8. Disaggregation of data.
          TITLE I--NATIONAL CLIMATE RESILIENCE ACTION PLANNING

Sec. 101. Interagency workgroup.
Sec. 102. Climate Resilience Task Force.
Sec. 103. Process and outcomes for development of national climate 
                            resilience action plan.
Sec. 104. Federal agency climate resilience action plans.
TITLE II--STATE, TRIBAL, LOCAL, AND COMMUNITY CLIMATE RESILIENCE ACTION 
                                PLANNING

Sec. 201. Climate resilience planning grants.
             TITLE III--CLIMATE RESILIENCE WORKFORCE GRANTS

Sec. 301. Job creation grants.
Sec. 302. Workforce development training and hiring grants.
Sec. 303. Virtual technical assistance and capacity building.
               TITLE IV--LABOR STANDARDS AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 401. Minimum labor standards for climate resilience workers.
Sec. 402. Good Climate Resilience Jobs Grant Program.
Sec. 403. Climate Resilience Workers Commission.
Sec. 404. Workers employed using Stafford Act funds.
Sec. 405. Paid leave for Federal employees who are victims of domestic 
                            violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
Sec. 406. GAO Report on Federal Prison Industry.
                TITLE V--REMOVING BARRIERS TO EMPLOYMENT

Sec. 501. Immigration barriers.
Sec. 502. Criminal justice barriers.
Sec. 503. Drug testing barriers.
Sec. 504. Taskforce on Worker Inclusion.
TITLE VI--PROVISIONS RELATED TO CLIMATE RESILIENCE WORKERS INVOLVED IN 
                    DISASTER RECOVERY AND REBUILDING

Sec. 601. Supports for disaster recovery workers.
Sec. 602. Pilot program providing Federal employment opportunities for 
                            formerly incarcerated firefighters.
Sec. 603. Direct employment in FEMA CORE.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Apprentice.--The term ``apprentice'' means a 
        participant in an apprenticeship program.
            (2) Apprenticeship program.--The term ``apprenticeship 
        program'' means an apprenticeship registered under the Act of 
        August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the ``National 
        Apprenticeship Act''; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50 
        et seq.) that meets the standards of subpart A of part 29 and 
        part 30 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (or any 
        successor regulations on registered programs).
            (3) Climate resilience.--The term ``climate resilience''--
                    (A) means the ability and capacity of social, 
                economic, and environmental systems, organized as 
                natural ecosystems and human communities, to 
                anticipate, prepare for, adapt to, respond to, and 
                recover from hazardous events, trends, or disturbances 
                related to climate change; and
                    (B) includes the ability to engage in an iterative 
                process of--
                            (i) assessing how climate change will 
                        create new, or alter current climate related 
                        risks, and how such risks are distributed 
                        within and across natural ecosystems and human 
                        communities, including--
                                    (I) for human communities, risks 
                                shall be assessed by geography, race, 
                                ethnicity, socioeconomic status, health 
                                and other demographic and social 
                                factors, as applicable; and
                                    (II) for natural ecosystems, risks 
                                shall be assessed by geography, species 
                                and ecosystem services, as applicable;
                            (ii) identifying human populations, animal 
                        and plant species, ecosystem services and 
                        habitats that face disproportionate risks and 
                        impacts of climate change, including--
                                    (I) for human populations, 
                                identifying risks due to historic and 
                                ongoing systemic racism, economic 
                                inequity, and environmental degradation 
                                and pollution; and
                                    (II) for natural species and 
                                ecosystem services, identifying risks 
                                due to environmental degradation, 
                                pollution and other anthropogenic 
                                impacts;
                            (iii) working to address the root causes 
                        that lead the entities identified in clause 
                        (ii) to be disproportionately vulnerable to the 
                        risks and impacts of climate change; and
                            (iv) prioritizing the natural species, 
                        ecosystem services and human populations 
                        identified in clause (ii) in taking steps to--
                                    (I) mitigate climate change by 
                                addressing its causes and impacts to 
                                the greatest extent possible as quickly 
                                as possible;
                                    (II) prepare for and adapt to the 
                                unavoidable impacts of climate change 
                                by ensuring that effective risk 
                                reduction and management and adaptation 
                                strategies can be implemented and 
                                maintained; and
                                    (III) recover from and rebuild 
                                after climate disasters in ways that 
                                minimize future risks and increase the 
                                ability of natural ecosystems and human 
                                communities to face future risks with 
                                less harm.
            (4) Co-operative.--The term ``co-operative'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 1381 of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986.
            (5) Community of color.--The term ``community of color'' 
        means a census block group or series of geographically 
        contiguous blocks in which the population of any of the 
        following categories of individuals, individually or in 
        combination, comprises 30 percent or more of the population of 
        persons in the census block group or series of geographically 
        contiguous blocks:
                    (A) Black.
                    (B) African American.
                    (C) Asian.
                    (D) Pacific Islander.
                    (E) Other non-White race.
                    (F) Hispanic.
                    (G) Latino.
                    (H) Linguistically isolated.
            (6) Covered project labor agreement.--The term covered 
        project labor agreement means a project labor agreement that--
                    (A) binds all contractors and subcontractors on the 
                project through the inclusion of appropriate 
                specifications in all relevant solicitation provisions 
                and contract documents;
                    (B) allows all contractors and subcontractors to 
                compete for contracts and subcontracts without regard 
                to whether they are otherwise a party to a collective 
                bargaining agreement;
                    (C) contains guarantees against strikes, lockouts, 
                and other similar job disruptions;
                    (D) sets forth effective, prompt, and mutually 
                binding procedures for resolving labor disputes arising 
                during the covered project labor agreement; and
                    (E) provides other mechanisms for labor-management 
                cooperation on matters of mutual interest and concern, 
                including productivity, quality of work, safety, and 
                health.
            (7) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the director of 
        the Office of Climate Resilience established under section 4 of 
        this Act.
            (8) Frontline community.--The term ``frontline community'' 
        means--
                    (A) a community or population that, due to systemic 
                racial or economic injustice, has been made vulnerable 
                to experience disproportionate exposure to 
                environmental hazards, including--
                            (i) a low-income community;
                            (ii) a community of color; and
                            (iii) a Tribal or indigenous community;
                    (B) a community that has been primarily 
                economically dependent on fossil fuel industries; and
                    (C) a community or population that is vulnerable or 
                systematically disadvantaged and therefore has a higher 
                likelihood of being impacted by environmental and 
                climate injustice and inequitable climate actions, 
                including--
                            (i) linguistically isolated communities;
                            (ii) individuals with limited English 
                        proficiency;
                            (iii) immigrants and refugees;
                            (iv) individuals with limited mobility;
                            (v) individuals who are ill;
                            (vi) vulnerable elderly populations;
                            (vii) children, youth, and pregnant women;
                            (viii) individuals with disabilities;
                            (ix) LGBTQ+ individuals;
                            (x) institutionalized populations;
                            (xi) individuals living in isolated rural 
                        areas;
                            (xii) unhoused populations; and
                            (xiii) workers whose job requires such 
                        worker to work outdoors.
            (9) Grassroots community group.--The term ``grassroots 
        community group'' means a group of organized or connected 
        individuals residing in the same census block group or series 
        of geographically contiguous blocks that face the same or 
        similar risks and impacts of climate change or other social, 
        economic, and environmental risks and impacts.
            (10) Interim credential.--The term ``interim credential'' 
        means a credential issued by a registration agency, upon 
        request of the appropriate sponsor, as certification of 
        competency attainment by a program participant during 
        participation in a program under the national apprenticeship 
        system.
            (11) Labor organization.--The term ``labor organization'' 
        has the meaning given such term in section 2(5) of the National 
        Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 152(5)).
            (12) Labor, worker, and workforce development 
        stakeholders.--The term ``labor, worker, and workforce 
        development stakeholders'' shall include--
                    (A) individuals who are members of populations 
                facing barriers to employment who have shown leadership 
                in addressing such barriers;
                    (B) worker-driven entities dedicated to ensuring 
                collective worker voice and representation, including--
                            (i) labor unions;
                            (ii) worker centers; and
                            (iii) worker associations;
                    (C) organizations that advocate for improvement to 
                worker rights and working conditions, including 
                organizations that work to expand collective 
                bargaining, raise worker wages, improve workplace 
                safety, reduce and end discrimination and increase 
                workplace equity;
                    (D) individuals and organizations, including 
                potential employers, that possess knowledge of the 
                jobs, skills, and occupations that pertain to climate 
                resilience work, in order to inform workforce and 
                training needs; and
                    (E) entities with proven track records in designing 
                and participating in workforce development and training 
                programs resulting in higher wages and improved job 
                security for workers, including--
                            (i) community colleges;
                            (ii) nonprofit organizations; and
                            (iii) joint labor management partnerships.
            (13) Local government.--The term ``local government'' 
        means--
                    (A) a county, municipality, city, town, township, 
                local public authority, school district, special 
                district, intrastate district, council of governments 
                (regardless of whether the council of governments is 
                incorporated as a nonprofit corporation under State 
                law), regional or interstate governmental entity, or 
                agency or instrumentality of a local government; or
                    (B) an Indian Tribe or authorized Tribal 
                organization, or Alaska Native village or organization 
                that is not a Tribal Government.
            (14) Low-income community.--The term ``low-income 
        community'' means any census block group in which 30 percent or 
        more of the population of such block group are individuals with 
        an annual household income equal to, or less than, the greater 
        of--
                    (A) an amount equal to 80 percent of the median 
                income of the area in which the household is located, 
                as reported by the Department of Housing and Urban 
                Development; and
                    (B) 200 percent of the Federal poverty line.
            (15) Non-profit organization.--The term ``non-profit 
        organization'' means an organization under section 501(c)(3) of 
        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
            (16) Population.--The term ``population'' means a census 
        block group or series of geographically contiguous blocks 
        representing certain common characteristics, including race, 
        ethnicity, national origin, income-level, health disparities, 
        or other public health or socioeconomic attributes.
            (17) Populations facing barriers to employment.--The term 
        ``populations facing barriers to employment'' means populations 
        that have faced systemic barriers to employment, significant, 
        systemic job losses, or chronic underemployment or insecure 
        employment due to failed economic policies, including--
                    (A) undocumented individuals;
                    (B) individuals with criminal records;
                    (C) individuals who are formerly incarcerated;
                    (D) deindustrialized communities; and
                    (E) demographic populations with unemployment 
                levels higher than the national average.
            (18) Pre-apprenticeship program.--The term ``pre-
        apprenticeship program'' means a training model or program 
        that--
                    (A) prepares individuals, focusing on 
                underrepresented populations, to enter and succeed in a 
                registered apprenticeship program;
                    (B) has an articulation agreement with one or more 
                registered apprenticeship programs;
                    (C) that teaches a curriculum based on industry 
                standards; and
                    (D) that offers hands on training opportunities 
                that do not displace paid workers.
            (19) Project labor agreement.--The term ``project labor 
        agreement'' means a pre-hire collective bargaining agreement 
        with one or more labor organizations that establishes the terms 
        and conditions of employment for a specific project and is 
        described in section 8(f) of the National Labor Relations Act 
        (29 U.S.C. 158(f)).
            (20) Recognized post-secondary credential.--The term 
        ``recognized post-secondary credential'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102), except that such term does 
        not include a certificate of completion of an apprenticeship.
            (21) Regional governmental group.--The term ``regional 
        governmental group'' means a group of States that share borders 
        or are in close proximity to one another and share similar 
        social, economic, and environmental systems and risks and 
        impacts of climate change.
            (22) State.--The term ``State'' includes each of the 
        several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated 
        States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the 
        Republic of Palau, and the territories and possessions of the 
        United States.
            (23) Tribal government.--The term ``Tribal government'' 
        means the governing body of an Indian Tribe.
            (24) Tribal or indigenous community.--The term ``Tribal or 
        indigenous community'' means a population of people who are 
        members of--
                    (A) a federally recognized Indian Tribe;
                    (B) a State recognized Indian Tribe;
                    (C) an Alaskan Native or Native Hawaiian community 
                or organization; and
                    (D) any other community of indigenous people 
                located in a State.
            (25) Worker center.--The term ``worker center'' means a 
        non-profit organization or a co-operative that--
                    (A) has as one if its primary goals the improvement 
                of worker rights, workplace safety, wages, working 
                conditions, or employment access, or the promotion of 
                enhanced worker voice; and
                    (B) which has some kind of formal mechanism by 
                which workers who stand to benefit from these 
                improvements may directly participate in organizational 
                decision-making.

SEC. 4. OFFICE OF CLIMATE RESILIENCE.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the President shall establish an Office of 
Climate Resilience (hereinafter referred to as the ``Office'') within 
the White House.
    (b) Director.--
            (1) Appointment.--The President shall appoint a Director of 
        the Office.
            (2) Term.--The Director shall serve for a period of 5 
        years.
            (3) Termination.--The President may terminate the Director 
        prior to the end of the term described in paragraph (2) for 
        issues with performance.
    (c) Purpose.--The purpose of the Office shall be to use information 
from all sectors involved in climate resilience, including frontline 
community experience, scientific expertise, and labor organization 
input to coordinate Federal actions to support a climate resilient 
nation and operate as a Secretariat.
    (d) Functions.--The Office shall--
            (1) convene the necessary Federal and external stakeholders 
        to inform and develop a national climate resilience action 
        plan;
            (2) revise the plan described in paragraph (1) every 5 
        years, or more frequently if determined necessary by the 
        Director based on science;
            (3) support Federal agencies in developing and revising 
        agency-specific climate resilience actions plans and compile 
        such plans into a Federal Government climate resilience action 
        plan;
            (4) administer grants established under section 201 of this 
        Act;
            (5) coordinate with the Climate Resilience Workers 
        Commission established under section 403 of this Act to support 
        compliance with the requirements of this Act;
            (6) coordinate with other Federal activities related to 
        climate resilience, including efforts made by the National 
        Environmental Justice Advisory Council and the White House 
        Environmental Justice Advisory Council; and
            (7) evaluate the effectiveness of the national climate 
        resilience action plan in achieving a climate resilient nation 
        through annual assessments and annual reporting to Congress.
    (e) Staffing.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office shall appoint 
        staff to organize the activities of and provide support for the 
        members of the Climate Resilience Equity Advisory Board 
        established under section 5 of this Act, the interagency 
        working group, and the Climate Resilience Task Force.
            (2) Additional employees.--The Director may hire other 
        employees as needed to exercise and fulfil the function and 
        purpose of the Office.

SEC. 5. CLIMATE RESILIENCE EQUITY ADVISORY BOARD.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Climate Resilience 
shall establish a Climate Resilience Equity Advisory Board (herein 
after referred to as the ``Advisory Board'').
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Advisory Board shall be to advise 
and make recommendations to the Office of Climate Resilience to ensure 
that the knowledge, experiences, and priorities of frontline 
communities are incorporated into Federal climate resilience efforts.
    (c) Functions.--The Advisory Board shall--
            (1) participate in the planning process to develop a 
        national climate resilience action plan, including by advising 
        and making recommendations to the interagency workgroup, 
        Climate Resilience Task Force, and labor, worker, and workforce 
        development stakeholders to ensure that--
                    (A) the knowledge, lived experiences, and 
                priorities of frontline communities are incorporated 
                into the strategies, actions, and projects proposed in 
                the national climate resilience action plan and agency 
                climate resilience plans; and
                    (B) climate resilience jobs and training 
                opportunities prioritize and are accessible to 
                frontline communities;
            (2) advise and make recommendations to the Office of 
        Climate Resilience on ongoing climate resilience activities; 
        and
            (3) collaborate with, advise, and make recommendations to 
        the Center for the Climate Resilience Workforce on the 
        activities of such Center.
    (d) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--Members of the Advisory Board shall be 
        representatives of frontline communities.
            (2) Application process.--The Director of the Office shall 
        develop an application process and criteria that, at minimum, 
        shall require applicants for the Advisory Board to provide--
                    (A) letters of support from 3 individuals who are 
                members of the community they represent, highlighting 
                the qualifications and relevant lived, volunteer, or 
                paid work experience the individual possesses to serve 
                on the Advisory Board; and
                    (B) demographic information about the community 
                represented by the individual including data on 
                population size, income, race, education level, 
                geographic location, and health, climate, and 
                environmental risks faced.
            (3) Size of board.--
                    (A) In general.--The Advisory Board shall be 
                comprised of not less than 12 members that provide 
                diverse and fair representation of frontline 
                communities.
                    (B) Additional members.--The Director may select 
                additional members representing frontline communities 
                for the Advisory Board on an interim or permanent 
                basis.
            (4) Term.--
                    (A) In general.--A member shall serve on the 
                Advisory Board for a term of 3 years.
                    (B) Term limit.--A member may serve on the Advisory 
                Board for not more than 2 terms.
    (e) Compensation.--The Director of the Office shall establish 
guidelines and a process for providing compensation to individuals who 
would otherwise not be able to participate or who would experience 
financial hardship without such compensation.
    (f) Public Participation and Transparency.--The Board shall make 
every effort, consistent with applicable law, including section 552 of 
title 5, United States Code, and section 552a of title 5, United States 
Code, to maximize public participation and transparency, including 
making the advice of the Board publicly available in electronic form, 
including video streaming, on the website of the Office.
    (g) Applicability of Law.--Section 14(a)(2) of the Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Advisory 
Committee.

SEC. 6. CENTER FOR THE CLIMATE RESILIENCE WORKFORCE.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 3 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall establish a Center 
for the Climate Resilience Workforce.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Center for the Climate Resilience 
Workforce shall be to--
            (1) serve as a public resource to support job quality, 
        worker voice, job training and job creation for the climate 
        resilience workforce; and
            (2) disseminate information, conduct research, and 
        celebrate the contributions of the climate resilience 
        workforce.
    (c) Staffing.--
            (1) In general.--The Center shall be comprised of staff 
        with sufficient knowledge and expertise to carry out the 
        functions under subsection (d).
            (2) Consultation.--The Center shall consult with Federal 
        agencies as needed to carry out the functions under subsection 
        (d), including the Environmental Protection Agency, the 
        Department of Interior, the Department of Agriculture, and the 
        Department of Commerce.
    (d) Functions.--The Center shall--
            (1) define the occupational sectors that pertain to climate 
        resilience, as indicated in section 7, revise such definition 
        as needed based on the latest science and labor market and 
        worker data, and maintain an updated list of such sectors on 
        the Center's website;
            (2) contact annually, at a minimum, the United States 
        Global Change Research Program regarding key shifts and 
        emerging challenges in social, economic and environmental 
        systems due to climate change to inform the identification of 
        priority sectors, skills and geographies of focus for the 
        climate resilience workforce;
            (3) take into account any research that identifies 
        frontline communities by tracking the nationwide geographic 
        distribution of cumulative environmental impacts, pollution 
        hotspots, and vulnerability to various environmental risks 
        through the Environmental Justice Screen tool of the 
        Environmental Protection Agency and other Federal environmental 
        justice mapping efforts to ensure that job creation and hiring 
        prioritize the communities that are most likely to face 
        disproportionate risks and impacts of climate change;
            (4) conduct research on the climate resilience workforce 
        to--
                    (A) track the growth of the climate resilience 
                workforce;
                    (B) track labor market trends in the supply and 
                demand of climate resilience workers by sector, 
                geography, occupation, skills, and training level, 
                highlighting areas of greatest demand and supply so as 
                to inform job creation and training investments;
                    (C) identify effective strategies in job creation, 
                training, recruitment, employment and provision of 
                ongoing support for climate resilience workers;
                    (D) identify the successes, challenges, 
                opportunities and needs of the climate resilience 
                workforce; and
                    (E) collect data (through reliance on BLS 
                statistics and United States Energy and Employment 
                Report data) on the demographic distribution of jobs 
                created through the programs in this legislation, as 
                well as wages of new jobs by worker demographics;
            (5) evaluate--
                    (A) the effectiveness of the various funding 
                streams created by this Act in supporting the growth of 
                a well-equipped, skilled, and demographically 
                representative climate resilience workforce;
                    (B) the current minimum labor standards of climate 
                resilience workers, barriers to improved safety, wages 
                and worker voice, and potential regulatory and 
                operational adjustments to improve those labor 
                standards;
                    (C) the relative job quality of climate resilience 
                jobs, including wage and benefit levels, union density, 
                and other relevant metrics; and
                    (D) the Department of Labor's role in diverse and 
                equitable job creation for the climate resilience 
                workforce, especially regarding race, ethnicity and 
                gender for the programs created or supported through 
                this Act;
            (6) highlight and make recommendations to address 
        disparities and barriers in--
                    (A) the hiring, retention or income of workers from 
                frontline communities and populations facing barriers 
                to employment;
                    (B) achieving minimum labor standards specified in 
                this Act for all climate resilience workers;
                    (C) the creation of living-wage jobs in the climate 
                resilience sector;
                    (D) barriers to worker voice, whistleblowers and 
                collective bargaining in the climate resilience 
                workforce and means by which to overcome these barriers 
                using improved enforcement, education and regulatory 
                changes; and
                    (E) addressing the immigration, criminal justice 
                and drug testing barriers to employment specified in 
                this Act;
            (7) collaborate with the Office of Climate Resilience, the 
        Climate Resilience Equity Advisory Board and labor, worker and 
        workforce stakeholders in conducting research, sharing 
        findings, and developing recommendations;
            (8) publish the findings of its research on its website and 
        maintain a monthly newsletter with the latest data on the 
        climate resilience workforce and research findings; and
            (9) honor the climate resilience workforce by publicly 
        recognizing the achievements of the climate resilience 
        workforce.

SEC. 7. DEFINING CLIMATE RESILIENCE SECTORS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Center for the Climate Resilience Workforce 
shall define climate resilience sectors for the purposes of this Act.
    (b) Revision.--The Center for the Climate Resilience Workforce 
shall revise the definition under subsection (a) as needed to reflect 
the full scope of the sectors, occupations, and skills needed to 
achieve a climate resilient nation, and maintain an updated list of 
sectors on the Center's website.
    (c) Inclusions.--In defining climate resilience sectors under 
subsection (a), the Center shall include, at a minimum, all employment 
sectors in which workers perform activities related to the following:
            (1) Mitigation of climate change.--Efforts focused on 
        achieving absolute reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in 
        the sectors producing the greatest emissions, including--
                    (A) transportation;
                    (B) electricity generation;
                    (C) industry;
                    (D) commercial and residential buildings; and
                    (E) agriculture.
            (2) Preparation for and adaptation to climate change.--
        Efforts focused on activities involved in preparing for, 
        adapting to, and addressing risks related to climate change, 
        including the following:
                    (A) Social systems.--
                            (i) Care infrastructure.--To ensure 
                        adequate, reliable access to and availability 
                        of formal services and informal, community-
                        based support for healthcare, childcare, elder 
                        care, home care, domestic care, and other 
                        related care functions as climate change 
                        impacts increase and to protect vulnerable 
                        populations in times of disaster.
                            (ii) Human health.--To prevent and address 
                        increased injury, illness, and death due to 
                        increased exposure to heat waves, floods, 
                        droughts, extreme weather events and vector-, 
                        food-, and waterborne infectious diseases and 
                        to changes in the quality and safety of air, 
                        food and water, and stresses to mental health.
                            (iii) Communities.--
                                    (I) Urban communities.--Strengthen 
                                vulnerable infrastructure and prevent 
                                and address concentrated heat and air 
                                pollution.
                                    (II) Rural communities.--Strengthen 
                                infrastructure and increase resources 
                                for resilience.
                                    (III) Tribal and indigenous 
                                communities.--Preparing for and 
                                adapting to threats to livelihoods and 
                                economies in agriculture, hunting and 
                                gathering, fishing, forestry, energy, 
                                recreation and tourism, threats to 
                                sites, practices and relationships with 
                                cultural, spiritual and ceremonial 
                                importance, loss of cultural heritage 
                                and identity, and loss of sovereignty 
                                and self-determination.
                    (B) Environmental systems.--
                            (i) Water.--Changes in water quantity and 
                        quality, deteriorating water infrastructure, 
                        flood and drought management, extreme 
                        precipitation and rising sea levels, ensuring 
                        access to clean drinking water, and ensuring 
                        adequate water storage and availability.
                            (ii) Air.--Worsening air quality, 
                        respiratory and cardiovascular illness and 
                        death, injury due to reduced visibility, damage 
                        to agricultural crops and forests, increased 
                        wildfire smoke, increased frequency and 
                        severity of allergic illnesses, and minimizing 
                        air pollutants to improve air quality.
                            (iii) Land.--Loss of land cover and impact 
                        on agriculture, wildfires, coastal wetlands and 
                        vegetation, mitigating the impacts of 
                        deforestation and urbanization, and considering 
                        climate change risks in land use decisions.
                            (iv) Forests.--Decreased tree growth and 
                        carbon storage.
                            (v) Ecosystems and biodiversity.--Altered 
                        or deteriorated ecosystem functions, altered 
                        individual characteristics of organisms, timing 
                        of biological events and geographic ranges of 
                        terrestrial, freshwater and marine organisms, 
                        spread of invasive species, loss of 
                        biodiversity, endangerment and extinction of 
                        organisms, and changes in agricultural and 
                        fisheries production, supply of clean water, 
                        protection from extreme events, and culturally 
                        valuable resources.
                            (vi) Coasts.--Higher storm surges and sea 
                        level rise, chronic high-tide flooding, 
                        threatened investments along coasts, economic 
                        losses in tourism and fishing, increased pace 
                        and extent of coastal flooding and erosion, and 
                        forced relocation.
                            (vii) Oceans.--Ecosystem disruption, loss 
                        of habitat, ocean warming, acidification, and 
                        deoxygenation, and losses to fisheries and 
                        fishing communities.
                    (C) Economic systems.--
                            (i) Public sector.--Activities focused on 
                        ensuring stable governance and provision of 
                        critical safety net services and supports, 
                        adopting new policies to address emerging 
                        threats, risks and needs and provide specific 
                        protections for vulnerable populations, and 
                        expanding services to ensure that emerging and 
                        increasing needs are met.
                            (ii) Buildings and built infrastructure.--
                        Activities focused on strengthening buildings 
                        and built infrastructure to climate risks, 
                        weatherization to account for shifting and 
                        increasing temperatures, preparing for and 
                        adapting to changing patterns of energy use and 
                        peak demands, ensuring good indoor air quality, 
                        and ensuring affordable housing.
                            (iii) Transportation.--Higher temperatures, 
                        increased precipitation, rising sea levels and 
                        extreme weather events on ports, vehicles and 
                        transportation infrastructure, preparing for 
                        travel disruptions, ensuring passenger safety, 
                        preparing for and adapting to fluctuations in 
                        fuel and electricity supply and communications 
                        disruptions, and demographic shifts and shifts 
                        in flows of goods and services that alter 
                        transport networks.
                            (iv) Manufacturing and industry.--Supply 
                        chain shocks, new regulatory requirements and 
                        price shocks, and the impact of increasing 
                        temperatures on manufacturing processes.
                            (v) Communications and technology.--Damage 
                        to communications infrastructure and service 
                        interruptions and outages.
                            (vi) Financial systems.--Physical risks 
                        associated with more frequent severe weather 
                        events and lasting environmental changes to 
                        insurance and banking sectors and local 
                        economies, preparing for, adapting to and 
                        addressing the transition risks posed by policy 
                        and technological changes to a reduced-carbon 
                        economy, and fluctuations in global markets, 
                        stranded assets.
                            (vii) Commerce.--Mitigation of threats to 
                        small, locally owned businesses.
                            (viii) Energy systems.--Impacts of 
                        increasing temperatures, severity of extreme 
                        weather events and increased precipitation on 
                        energy production and delivery, shifts in 
                        energy demand and supply, and growing 
                        population driving an increase in overall 
                        energy demand.
                            (ix) Agriculture and food systems.--
                        Disruptions to food availability, access, and 
                        quality due to reduced agricultural 
                        productivity, changes in temperature and 
                        precipitation patterns resulting in floods, 
                        droughts, changes in crop and livestock 
                        viability, new pests, pathogens and weed 
                        problems, depletion of water supplies for 
                        irrigation, soil degradation, illness and death 
                        in farm workers and livestock due to heat, 
                        economic losses, instability of food supply, 
                        closure of smaller farms with limited safety 
                        nets to deal with disrupting factors, economic 
                        losses for farming and rural communities, and 
                        increased food prices and greater food 
                        insecurity.
                            (x) Labor.--Impact of increased 
                        temperatures on workers, particularly those in 
                        high-risk industries where workers are doing 
                        physical labor and have a direct exposure to 
                        outdoor temperatures, and workers with limited 
                        labor protections such as incarcerated workers 
                        and undocumented and immigrant workers, 
                        preparing for and providing adequate 
                        protections for disaster recovery workers as 
                        the frequency of climate disasters increases, 
                        financial and economic disruption resulting in 
                        labor market shifts and potential job losses, 
                        and economic impact of disasters and long-term 
                        climate shifts on businesses, workers and local 
                        economies.
                            (xi) Education.--Activities focused on 
                        minimizing disruptions to educational systems, 
                        addressing disparate impacts of heat and other 
                        climate impacts on student achievement and 
                        learning, ensuring the physical safety and 
                        psychosocial well-being of students and 
                        teachers, planning for the use of schools as 
                        shelters during climate disasters, 
                        strengthening the infrastructure of school 
                        buildings, revising curricula to ensure that 
                        the public is well-educated and informed to be 
                        prepared for the risks posed by climate change, 
                        and creating new programs to ensure that 
                        individuals are trained with relevant skills to 
                        contribute to the climate resilience workforce.
                            (xii) Foreign affairs.--Increased need to 
                        provide foreign aid and assistance, increased 
                        migration, increased conflict, war, famine and 
                        political and economic instability, economic 
                        losses in trade and overseas operations, and 
                        shocks to global supply chains.
            (3) Disaster preparedness, recovery, and rebuilding.--
        Activities shall include--
                    (A) preparing for, recovering from, and rebuilding 
                after climate-related disasters, including--
                            (i) wildfires and any resulting landslides 
                        and debris;
                            (ii) extreme precipitation events, storm 
                        surges, and floods;
                            (iii) hurricanes;
                            (iv) heat waves and resulting fires;
                            (v) droughts;
                            (vi) permafrost thawing; and
                            (vii) coastal erosion; and
                    (B) securing the right of communities displaced by 
                disasters to return and supporting the relocation of 
                communities located in areas where safe habitation is 
                no longer possible.
    (d) Interim Definition.--In this Act, until the date on which the 
Center for the Climate Resilience Workforce defines climate resilience 
sectors for the purposes of this Act, the term ``climate resilience 
sectors'' shall include the employment sectors described in subsection 
(c).

SEC. 8. DISAGGREGATION OF DATA.

    With respect to any data collection under this Act, the 
disaggregation of data under this Act shall not be required when the 
number of program participants in a category is insufficient to yield 
statistically reliable information or when the results would reveal 
personally identifiable information about a program participant or 
would reveal such information when combined with other released 
information.

          TITLE I--NATIONAL CLIMATE RESILIENCE ACTION PLANNING

SEC. 101. INTERAGENCY WORKGROUP.

    (a) Establishment.--The Director of the Office of Climate 
Resilience shall convene an interagency workgroup of Federal agencies 
for which such agency's mission relates to climate resilience.
    (b) Functions.--The interagency workgroup convened under subsection 
(a) shall--
            (1) inform a national climate resilience action plan that 
        includes the Federal Government and extends beyond the scope of 
        the Federal Government; and
            (2) develop agency specific climate resilience action 
        plans.
    (c) Composition.--The interagency workgroup convened under 
subsection (a) shall include at least 1 representative from, at a 
minimum--
            (1) the Department of Agriculture;
            (2) the Department of Commerce;
            (3) the Department of Defense;
            (4) the Department of Education;
            (5) the Department of Energy;
            (6) the Department of Health and Human Services;
            (7) the Department of Homeland Security;
            (8) the Department of Housing and Urban Development;
            (9) the Department of Labor;
            (10) the Department of the Interior;
            (11) the Department of State;
            (12) the Department of Transportation;
            (13) the Environmental Protection Agency;
            (14) the Council on Environmental Quality;
            (15) the Office of the United States Trade Representative;
            (16) the Office of Management and Budget; and
            (17) the National Economic Council.

SEC. 102. CLIMATE RESILIENCE TASK FORCE.

    (a) Establishment.--The Director of the Office of Climate 
Resilience shall convene a Task Force of external stakeholders who 
possess expertise related to climate resilience to inform a national 
climate resilience action plan.
    (b) Appointment Process.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Climate 
        Resilience shall establish a public nomination and appointment 
        process for individuals with expertise in the activities 
        described in section 7(c) of this Act.
            (2) Revision of scope.--As the Center for the Climate 
        Resilience Workforce updates the definition of climate 
        resilience sectors under section 7 of this Act, the Director 
        may appoint additional members to, expand the scope of, and 
        alter the structure of the Task Force as needed to fulfill the 
        purpose of the Task Force.
    (c) Size of Task Force.--The task force shall be comprised of not 
less than 20 members. The Director shall appoint as many members as 
determined necessary to ensure that the Task Force possesses sufficient 
knowledge and expertise to make recommendations of sufficient depth and 
breadth to inform the development of a robust national climate action 
plan.
    (d) Structure of Task Force.--
            (1) In general.--The Task Force members shall appoint a 
        Chair who will serve as the liaison between the Task Force and 
        the Office.
            (2) Committees.--Members of the Task Force shall establish 
        issue-specific committees to focus on mitigation, preparation 
        and adaptation, and disaster preparedness, recovery, and 
        rebuilding activities as described in section 7(c) of this Act.
    (e) Qualifications.--Each member of the Task Force shall be 
qualified by education, training, or lived, volunteer, or paid work 
experience in the activities specified in section 7(c) of this Act to 
evaluate information and make recommendations on matters referred to 
the Task Force under this Act. Individuals appointed to the Task Force 
shall include--
            (1) individuals with experience implementing strategies to 
        achieve absolute reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from 
        the transportation, electricity generation, industrial, 
        commercial and residential building and agricultural sectors, 
        including experience as a community organizer on climate 
        mitigation issues or a frontline worker in such sectors;
            (2) individuals with experience in preparation and 
        adaptation, including--
                    (A) workers from care industries, including 
                healthcare, childcare, elder care, home care and other 
                related occupations;
                    (B) community organizers with expertise in disaster 
                preparedness and recovery and building robust 
                grassroots community support networks, mutual aid 
                networks, and emergency hubs;
                    (C) public sector leaders and employees from 
                Federal, State, local, and Tribal governments with 
                experience in administering social safety net programs;
                    (D) individuals with scientific, technical, 
                programmatic, and community expertise in implementing 
                measures to address the risks to each of the 
                environmental systems mentioned in section 7(c);
                    (E) individuals with scientific, technical, 
                programmatic, and community expertise in implementing 
                measures to address the risks to each of the economic 
                systems mentioned in section 7(c);
                    (F) individuals with experience in organized labor 
                and labor-management partnerships;
                    (G) individuals with expertise in climate-related 
                disaster preparedness, response, recovery, and 
                rebuilding from both the public and private sector; and
                    (H) emergency managers at local and State 
                government emergency management offices.

SEC. 103. PROCESS AND OUTCOMES FOR DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL CLIMATE 
              RESILIENCE ACTION PLAN.

    (a) Process.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Climate 
        Resilience shall convene the following groups to engage in the 
        development of a national climate resilience action plan:
                    (A) The Interagency Workgroup established under 
                section 101 of this Act.
                    (B) The Climate Resilience Equity Advisory Board 
                established under section 5 of this Act.
                    (C) The Climate Resilience Task Force established 
                under section 102 of this Act.
                    (D) Labor, worker, and workforce development 
                stakeholders.
                    (E) The Center for the Climate Resilience Workforce 
                established under section 6 of this Act.
            (2) Subgroups.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director may convene subgroups 
                of the groups convened under paragraph (1) to 
                facilitate depth of discussion and planning related to 
                specific issue areas or topics.
                    (B) Requirement.--In convening a subgroup pursuant 
                to subparagraph (A), the Director shall ensure that at 
                least 2 members of the Climate Resilience Equity 
                Advisory Board are included in such subgroup to ensure 
                that the knowledge, lived experiences, and priorities 
                of frontline communities are integrated into decisions 
                around climate resilience strategies.
                    (C) Recommendations.--In carrying out functions 
                under a subgroup convened pursuant to subparagraph (A), 
                the Climate Resilience Equity Advisory Board may issue 
                recommendations to any subgroup convened.
    (b) Outcomes.--The national climate resilience action plan 
developed under this section shall--
            (1) detail goals and priority strategies that shall be 
        taken to achieve a climate resilient nation and include 
        specific actions, timelines, targets, evaluation metrics, and 
        stakeholders responsible for implementation and oversight, 
        including goals, strategies, and actions that--
                    (A) encompass the entirety of climate resilience;
                    (B) focus on mitigation, preparation, adaptation, 
                and disaster recovery and rebuilding activities as 
                described in section 7(c) of this Act;
                    (C) prioritize frontline communities; and
                    (D) address the underlying and systemic factors of 
                systemic racism, economic inequity, and environmental 
                degradation and pollution that have led to inequitable 
                climate risks and impacts;
            (2) identify current and projected national workforce needs 
        to carry out the strategies and actions described in paragraph 
        (1), including--
                    (A) the existing jobs, skills, and occupations that 
                pertain to climate resilience work;
                    (B) the additional number of jobs that need to be 
                created to carry out such strategies and actions and 
                the projected cost of such jobs;
                    (C) emerging skills and occupations that are needed 
                and new training requirements to ensure that the United 
                States has a sufficiently skilled workforce to achieve 
                climate resilience;
                    (D) strategies to achieve racial and gender equity 
                in job creation and training, including strategies to 
                ensure equity and prioritization in training and hiring 
                members of frontline communities and populations facing 
                barriers to employment; and
                    (E) future projections for growth of the climate 
                resilience workforce, including demand data by job, 
                skill, and occupation; and
            (3) identify regional variation in risks, strategies, and 
        workforce needs.
    (c) Consultation of Resources.--In developing the national climate 
resilience action plan under this section, the groups convened under 
subsection (a)(1) may consult the following resources to inform the 
identification of strategies and actions under subsection (b):
            (1) Studies and policy guidance drafted by frontline 
        communities and advocates, including--
                    (A) the People's Orientation for a Regenerative 
                Economy;
                    (B) Movement for Black Lives policy guidance;
                    (C) Gulf South for a Green New Deal policy 
                platform;
                    (D) Equitable and Just National Climate platform;
                    (E) various platforms of the BlueGreen Alliance;
                    (F) United States Climate Action Network's vision 
                for equitable climate action; and
                    (G) Union of Concerned Scientists climate 
                resilience framework.
            (2) Governmental and intergovernmental data, reports, 
        studies, and tools, including--
                    (A) the reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on 
                Climate Change;
                    (B) the United States Global Change Research 
                Program's 4th National Climate Assessment;
                    (C) the United States Climate Resilience Toolkit;
                    (D) Center for Climate and Energy Solutions 
                Resilience Portal;
                    (E) various platforms of Resilience Force; and
                    (F) Bureau of Labor Statistics and United States 
                Energy and Employment report data, including data on 
                gender, race, ethnicity, and union representation.
    (d) Consultation of Stakeholders.--In convening the groups under 
subsection (a)(1) to identify current and projected national workforce 
needs under subsection (b)(2)--
            (1) labor, worker, and workforce development stakeholders 
        shall be consulted to provide input and recommendations on 
        labor, worker, workforce development, and training needs; and
            (2) the Climate Equity Advisory Board shall be consulted to 
        identify the skills and sectors of priority for frontline 
        communities.
    (e) Report to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to Congress a 
        progress report on the development of a national climate 
        resilience action plan.
            (2) Report of director.--Not later than 2 years after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to 
        Congress a copy of the national climate resilience action plan 
        developed under this section.
            (3) Reporting requirement.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        date of the submission of the national climate resilience 
        action plan under paragraph (1), and each year thereafter, the 
        Office of Climate Resilience shall submit to Congress a report 
        describing the progress towards achieving climate resilience 
        described in such plan.
    (f) Revision.--Not later than once every 5 years after the date on 
which the national climate resilience action plan is submitted under 
subsection (e)(1), the groups convened under subsection (a)(1) shall 
update such plan.

SEC. 104. FEDERAL AGENCY CLIMATE RESILIENCE ACTION PLANS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the head of each Federal agency shall submit to the 
Director a progress report on the development of agency-specific 
climate action plans.
    (b) Development.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the head of each Federal agency shall develop a 
climate resilience action plan for such agency that details the actions 
that each Federal agency shall take to support national climate 
resilience.
    (c) Contents.--Each agency climate resilience action plan developed 
under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) align with the goals and strategies of the national 
        climate resilience action plan developed under section 103;
            (2) include agency-specific targets and evaluation metrics, 
        in line with the plan's general goals, strategies, targets, and 
        evaluation metrics;
            (3) detail the changes that the agency will make to any 
        existing activities that threaten climate resilience and any 
        new activities the agency will take to support climate 
        resilience;
            (4) detail how the agency will integrate climate resilience 
        into current or future agency strategic plans;
            (5) list clear actions the agency will take, the entities 
        responsible for such actions, and timelines for implementation;
            (6) be developed in consultation with labor, worker, and 
        workforce development stakeholders;
            (7) ensure that frontline communities are prioritized in 
        each agency's efforts towards climate resilience;
            (8) be reviewed by the Climate Resilience Equity Advisory 
        Board and either incorporate, or provide justification for 
        excluding, any recommendations made by the Board;
            (9) build on any existing agency climate adaptation and 
        sustainability plans;
            (10) reflect the definition of climate resilience under 
        this Act;
            (11) ensure resilience of the agency in the face of climate 
        change risks to ensure the agency's ability to accomplish its 
        mission and protect the value of its assets and people;
            (12) include current and projected Federal workforce needs, 
        including necessary skills and training, to carry out the 
        actions outlined in the plan;
            (13) highlight limitations in statutory authority, resource 
        constraints, data gaps, and personnel training needs that are 
        hindering the agency's ability to fully undertake the 
        activities needed to support climate resilience;
            (14) be submitted to the appropriate committees of 
        jurisdiction within the House of Representatives and Senate not 
        later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act to 
        allow Congress to act accordingly to--
                    (A) provide funding and to ensure Federal agencies, 
                departments, and offices have adequate resources to 
                carry out the activities outlined in the agency plan;
                    (B) support existing jobs, create new jobs, and 
                support personnel training that are critical to the 
                Federal Government's activities to support climate 
                resilience;
                    (C) conduct oversight to ensure each agency is 
                carrying out the plan for such agency; and
                    (D) address limitations in statutory authority 
                through legislation; and
            (15) be revised not less frequently than every 5 years.
    (d) Responsibilities of the Office of Climate Resilience.--In 
carrying out this section, the Office of Climate Resilience shall--
            (1) not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, develop and issue specific guidelines for planning;
            (2) compile each plan developed by each Federal agency 
        under this section into a cohesive Federal Government climate 
        resilience action plan;
            (3) select the agency that has made the greatest 
        contributions to climate resilience to receive an annual award, 
        that shall include additional funding to carry out climate 
        resilience work; and
            (4) provide technical assistance, coordination, and support 
        for agencies in carrying out each agency's action plan 
        developed under this section.
    (e) Consultation of Resources.--In developing an action plan under 
this section, a Federal agency may consult--
            (1) the United States Council on Climate Preparedness and 
        Resilience's 2016 report titled ``Opportunities to Enhance the 
        Nation's Resilience to Climate Change'';
            (2) the 2014 recommendations from the State, Local, and 
        Tribal Leaders Task Force on Climate Preparedness and 
        Resilience;
            (3) Executive Order 13514, ``Federal Leadership in 
        Environmental, Energy and Economic Performance'';
            (4) Executive Order 13653, ``Preparing the United States 
        for the Impacts of Climate Change''; and
            (5) the Climate and Natural Resource Working Group (CNRWG), 
        Priority Agenda: ``Enhancing the Climate Resilience of 
        America's Natural Resources'', Washington, DC, Council on 
        Climate Preparedness and Resilience, 2014.

TITLE II--STATE, TRIBAL, LOCAL, AND COMMUNITY CLIMATE RESILIENCE ACTION 
                                PLANNING

SEC. 201. CLIMATE RESILIENCE PLANNING GRANTS.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Climate Resilience 
shall establish a Climate Resilience Planning grant program 
(hereinafter referred to as the ``grant program'').
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the grant program is to support 
States, Tribes, localities, regional groups, nonprofit organizations, 
and community groups in conducting climate change risk assessments and 
developing climate resilience action plans.
    (c) Eligibility.--The following entities are eligible for a grant 
under this section:
            (1) State governments.
            (2) Tribal governments.
            (3) Local governments.
            (4) Regional governmental groups.
            (5) Nonprofit organizations.
            (6) Grassroots community groups that partner with a fiscal 
        sponsor that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of 
        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
    (d) Initial Applications.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Director shall publish a request for 
applications for a grant under this section.
    (e) Application Requirements.--To be eligible for a grant under 
this section, an applicant shall submit to the Director an application 
at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the 
Director may require, including, at a minimum--
            (1) a certification that such applicant has formed an 
        advisory board that--
                    (A) has majority representation from frontline 
                communities;
                    (B) has at least 1 individual who possesses 
                scientific knowledge or experience in conducting risk 
                assessments pertaining to climate change;
                    (C) has labor, worker, and workforce development 
                stakeholders, including at least 1 representative of a 
                labor union and 1 individual representing populations 
                facing barriers to employment; and
                    (D) allows advisory board members to receive 
                compensation for participation on such board if it is 
                determined that the individual serving would incur 
                financial hardship or otherwise be unable to 
                participate without such compensation;
            (2) details on the population represented by the entity, 
        including demographic information on population size, income, 
        race, education level, and primary sectors of employment;
            (3) reasons for seeking grant funding to support climate 
        resilience planning;
            (4) details on advisory board members including name, 
        organizational affiliation (if applicable), qualifications, and 
        letters of support from 3 local community-based nonprofit 
        organizations verifying the accuracy of the information 
        presented;
            (5) a list of the stakeholders that will be involved in the 
        planning process;
            (6) details on how the advisory board will be incorporated 
        into the planning process;
            (7) the identity of the individual who will lead the 
        planning process and whether an external entity will be hired 
        to facilitate the planning process;
            (8) the expected timeline for how long the planning process 
        is expected to take;
            (9) expected data sources for local employment and worker 
        data;
            (10) a community engagement plan detailing--
                    (A) steps that will be taken to ensure that 
                frontline communities are informed about the planning 
                process; and
                    (B) accommodations that will be made to ensure that 
                such groups have the opportunity to participate in the 
                planning process and provide public comment before the 
                plan is finalized; and
            (11) a detailed budget for the planning process.
    (f) Prioritization.--Grants under this section will be prioritized 
for proposals submitted by entities that represent frontline 
communities.
    (g) Eligible Use of Funds.--A grant under this section may be used 
for--
            (1) compensation for advisory board members;
            (2) facilitation costs;
            (3) materials and supplies;
            (4) community engagement and outreach expenses; and
            (5) compensation for technical assistance or support.
    (h) Grant Duration.--A grant under this section shall be for a 
period of 2 years, unless the Director extends such period.
    (i) Federal Share.--The Federal share of the costs of an activity 
carried out using a grant under this section shall be 100 percent.
    (j) Resource Consultation.--Entities receiving a grant under this 
section may consult with the resources described in section 103(c) of 
this Act to carry out planning efforts under this section.
    (k) Planning Requirements.--Entities shall ensure that plans meet 
the following requirements:
            (1) Using data, assess how climate change will create new, 
        or alter current climate related risks, and how such risks are 
        distributed within and across natural ecosystems and human 
        communities, including--
                    (A) with respect to human communities, risks should 
                be assessed by geography, race, ethnicity, 
                socioeconomic status, health and other demographic and 
                social factors; and
                    (B) with respect to natural ecosystems, risks 
                should be assessed by geography, species and ecosystem 
                services.
            (2) Identify natural species, ecosystem services and human 
        populations that face disproportionate risks and impacts of 
        climate change, including--
                    (A) with respect to human populations, identifying 
                risks due to historic and ongoing systemic racism, 
                economic inequity, and environmental degradation and 
                pollution; and
                    (B) with respect to natural species and ecosystem 
                services, identifying risks due to environmental 
                degradation, pollution and other anthropogenic impacts.
            (3) Identify goals and priority strategies, specific 
        actions, targets, timelines, and evaluation metrics to achieve 
        a climate resilient community that shall--
                    (A) encompass the full definition of climate 
                resilience to include strategies pertaining to 
                mitigation, preparation and adaptation, and disaster 
                preparedness, recovery, and rebuilding;
                    (B) prioritize frontline communities;
                    (C) address the underlying and systemic factors of 
                systemic racism, economic inequity, and environmental 
                degradation and pollution that have led to inequitable 
                climate risks and impacts; and
                    (D) align with the goals, strategies, actions, 
                targets and evaluation metrics detailed in the National 
                Climate Resilience Action plan, if available.
            (4) Identify stakeholders responsible for implementation 
        and oversight.
            (5) Government entities must involve every relevant agency 
        or office in the planning process and detail the actions each 
        agency or office will take as relevant to the agency or 
        office's mission to protect the jurisdiction from identified 
        risks.
            (6) The advisory board must be meaningfully included and 
        consulted in the development of the plan and offer 
        recommendations.
            (7) Identify workforce needs to implement the climate 
        resilience strategies and actions identified in the plan, per 
        the requirements in section 103(b)(2) of this Act.

             TITLE III--CLIMATE RESILIENCE WORKFORCE GRANTS

SEC. 301. JOB CREATION GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Director of the Office of Climate Resilience shall, in 
coordination with the Secretary of Labor, establish a Climate 
Resilience Job Creation grant program.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the grant program established under 
this section shall be to fund projects to be carried out by eligible 
entities for the purpose of--
            (1) creating local jobs to build the nation's climate 
        resilience workforce;
            (2) implementing the strategies, actions, and projects laid 
        out in climate resilience action plans that meet the criteria 
        specified in section 201(k) of this Act; and
            (3) halving unemployment by creating 1,000,000 jobs 
        annually that last not less than 4 years and provide benefits, 
        pathways to family-sustaining careers, a living wage, worker 
        safety and voice to United States workers.
    (c) Eligibility.--
            (1) In general.--An entity may be eligible for a grant 
        under this section if such entity--
                    (A) is a State, Tribe, locality, regional group, 
                nonprofit organization, labor organization and labor-
                management organization, or community group; and
                    (B) includes in the application a climate 
                resilience action plan that--
                            (i) has been approved under section 201(k) 
                        of this Act; or
                            (ii) meets the requirements for a plan in 
                        such section.
            (2) Prior grant.--An entity may be eligible under paragraph 
        (1) regardless of whether the entity received a grant under 
        section 201 of this Act.
    (d) Priority.--The Director shall prioritize grant funding for any 
entity that--
            (1) represents a frontline community;
            (2) demonstrates a history of or commitment to hiring 
        graduates of--
                    (A) the programs funded by the workforce 
                development training grants in section 302; or
                    (B) any pre-apprenticeship or registered 
                apprenticeship program;
            (3) commits to ensuring that at least 40 percent of jobs 
        created under a grant under this section will be held by 
        individuals from--
                    (A) frontline communities; and
                    (B) populations facing barriers to employment;
            (4) proposes a project that serves a frontline community; 
        or
            (5) demonstrates strong support from a frontline community.
    (e) Requirements.--An entity carrying out a project funded under 
this section shall do the following:
            (1) Support or create climate resilience jobs specified in 
        local climate resilience action plans.
            (2) Support or create jobs that meet the labor standards 
        specified in title IV.
            (3) Eliminate barriers to employment as specified in title 
        V.
    (f) Applications.--The Director shall require an eligible entity to 
submit an application that includes--
            (1) a description of the applicant's plan to meet the 
        requirements for priority under subsection (d);
            (2) an attestation that the applicant will adhere to the 
        minimum labor standards specified in section 401, and provide 
        the Director at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
        information as the Director may reasonably require, to 
        demonstrate compliance with the requirements under section 
        401(a)(3);
            (3) a plan to report to the Office aggregate data on the 
        sustainable jobs with community supporting wages supported by 
        grant funding and demographic statistics of jobs created, 
        disaggregated by gender, race, age, education level, and number 
        of sustainable jobs with community supporting wages hired from 
        frontline communities and populations facing barriers to 
        employment; and
            (4) a detailed budget for positions to be supported by the 
        grant.
    (g) Reporting.--Not later than 6 months after receipt of a grant 
under this section, and every 6 months thereafter until the termination 
of such grant, the recipient of such grant shall submit to the Director 
a report that includes--
            (1) aggregate data on workers and demographic statistics of 
        jobs created under this section, including--
                    (A) the number of workers hired;
                    (B) non-identifying data on the race, gender, and 
                ZIP Code for workers hired; and
                    (C) the wages and benefits paid in those jobs 
                including income broken out by race and gender, other 
                benefits provided to persons employed in those jobs, 
                broken out by race and gender, weekly hours worked by 
                workers employed through jobs created, and, if jobs are 
                time-limited, duration of employment;
            (2) progress on the climate resilience projects, strategies 
        and actions being implemented by workers in relation to 
        timelines laid out in plan;
            (3) expenditures to date; and
            (4) plan for securing other funds to support the jobs 
        supported or created by this grant.
    (h) Grant Duration.--A grant under this section may be terminated 
with 30 days notice if the grantee--
            (1) has failed to meet the labor and employment baseline 
        requirements of this bill; or
            (2) has had more than one substantiated complaint against 
        them for a violation of a provision under the jurisdiction of 
        the National Labor Relations Board, Equal Employment 
        Opportunity Commission, Wage and Hour Division, Department of 
        Justice's Civil Rights Division, Occupational Safety and Health 
        Administration, Department of Labor's Climate Resilience 
        Workers Commission or the Environmental Protection Agency.
    (i) Request for Applications.--Not later than 120 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Office shall publish a request for 
applications for grants under this section.

SEC. 302. WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT TRAINING AND HIRING GRANTS.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Climate Resilience 
shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Labor, establish a Climate 
Resilience Workforce Development, Apprenticeship and Pre-Apprenticeship 
Grant Program.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the grant program is to provide funds 
to eligible entities to--
            (1) establish new apprenticeship, pre-apprenticeship and 
        workforce development programs that prepare workers to 
        immediately train for and access jobs created through section 
        301 of this Act;
            (2) maintain or expand existing apprenticeship, pre-
        apprenticeship and workforce development programs that provide 
        training for climate resilience industries, jobs, and career 
        paths;
            (3) support national industry and equity intermediaries in 
        establishing or expanding sector-based partnerships and labor-
        management partnerships to support the delivery or expansion of 
        climate resilience-related programs under the national 
        apprenticeship system to significant scale in the United 
        States;
            (4) provide direct financial assistance to apprentices, 
        pre-apprentices, or youth apprentices through emergency grants 
        to support their financial needs to enter, remain enrolled in, 
        and complete such programs, such as support for the related 
        costs of supplies and equipment, courses, transportation, child 
        care, and housing;
            (5) establish or expand partnerships with organizations 
        that provide program participants access to financial planning, 
        mentoring, and supportive services that are necessary to enable 
        an individual to participate in and complete a program under 
        the national apprenticeship system or the national workforce 
        development system;
            (6) conduct targeted outreach and recruitment to frontline 
        communities and populations facing barriers to employment;
            (7) provide training services and workforce investment 
        activities that expand the climate resilience workforce;
            (8) assist workers to obtain interim credentials and 
        recognized post-secondary credentials that build proficiency 
        for climate resilience-related careers;
            (9) provide assistance in creating and obtaining 
        accreditations and licenses that demonstrate proficiency or 
        specialized skills related to climate resilience careers; and
            (10) carry out the activities described in section 601(a) 
        of this Act.
    (c) Eligible Entities.--The following entities are eligible to 
apply for a grant under this section:
            (1) A State workforce development board or State workforce 
        agency, a local government, or a local workforce development 
        board or local workforce development agency.
            (2) An education and training provider.
            (3) A State apprenticeship agency.
            (4) An Indian Tribe or Tribal organization.
            (5) An industry or sector partnership, a group of 
        employers, a trade association, or a professional association 
        that sponsors or participates in a program under the national 
        apprenticeship system.
            (6) A Governor of a State.
            (7) A labor organization or joint labor-management 
        organization.
            (8) A qualified intermediary.
            (9) A nonprofit organization.
            (10) A co-operative.
            (11) A public institution of higher education at which the 
        highest degree that is predominantly awarded to students is an 
        associate's degree, including 2-year tribally controlled 
        colleges under section 316 of the Higher Education Act (20 
        U.S.C. 1059c) and public 2-year State institutions of higher 
        education.
            (12) A consortium or partnership among any of the entities 
        under this subsection.
    (d) Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--A recipient of a grant under this section 
        shall use such funds to do the following:
                    (A) Train individuals to work in climate resilience 
                jobs with community supporting wages specified in local 
                climate resilience plans or for climate resilience 
                disaster recovery and rebuilding jobs, including 
                through pre-apprenticeship or apprenticeship programs.
                    (B) Provide job placement assistance.
                    (C) Develop a plan to publish aggregate demographic 
                statistics for program entrants and graduates.
                    (D) Provide wraparound support services to 
                eliminate barriers to employment, as relevant to the 
                specific populations served by the program, including 
                case management assistance, stipends, tools, and 
                equipment or other support needed for success in 
                completing the training and in subsequent employment.
            (2) Partnerships.--A recipient of a grant under this 
        section may partner with other eligible entities to ensure that 
        the activities under paragraph (1) are carried out.
    (e) Priority Considerations.--Priority shall be given to an 
eligible entity that--
            (1) demonstrates success serving populations facing 
        barriers to employment and frontline communities;
            (2) is a partnership among 2 or more eligible entities;
            (3) is a joint labor-management organization; and
            (4) provides a wide and flexible range of supportive 
        services to participants including direct financial assistance, 
        quality childcare services, housing assistance, case 
        management, and other assistance that successfully addresses 
        barriers to program completion.
    (f) Grant Duration.--
            (1) In general.--A grant under this section shall last for 
        a period of 5 years.
            (2) Renewal.--The Director may renew grants under this 
        section as the Director determines appropriate.
    (g) Prohibition on Use of Funds.--No funds under this section may 
be used--
            (1) to carry out an industry recognized apprenticeship 
        program that is not an apprenticeship program under section 3 
        of this Act; or
            (2) to recognize a program described in paragraph (1).
    (h) Federal Share.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Office shall publish a request for 
applications that, at minimum, reflects the above requirements. There 
shall be no matching requirement for grants.
    (i) Reporting.--Not later than 6 months after receipt of a grant 
under this section, and every 6 months thereafter until termination of 
such grant, the recipient of such grant shall submit to the Director a 
report that includes aggregate demographic statistics for program 
entrants and graduates, rates of program completion and job placement, 
and demographics of populations enrolled in and completing the program, 
including rates of recruitment, program completion and job placement 
for populations facing barriers to employment.

SEC. 303. VIRTUAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CAPACITY BUILDING.

    (a) Technical Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--The Director shall provide virtual and 
        remote technical assistance support to entities that seek to 
        apply for the grant programs specified in sections 201, 301, 
        and 302 and require assistance navigating the Federal grants 
        process and that are--
                    (A) a community-based nonprofit organization with 
                fewer than 20 employees;
                    (B) a grassroots community group;
                    (C) a co-operative;
                    (D) a Tribal government or Tribal organizations; or
                    (E) a locality with a population of not greater 
                than 50,000.
            (2) Letter of intent.--Entities seeking technical 
        assistance support with the grant application process must 
        submit a letter of intent to the Office detailing the grant for 
        which they wish to apply, along with proof of tax-exempt 
        501(c)(3) status, worker co-op status or proof of population 
        size of municipality.
            (3) Recruitment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Director shall hire and train full 
        time employees to carry out paragraph (1).
            (4) Phone or web conference assistance.--Technical 
        assistance support may be provided by phone or web 
        conferencing.
    (b) Capacity Building.--
            (1) In general.--The Director may provide entities seeking 
        to apply for grants under sections 201, 301, and 302 up to 10 
        percent of grant funds to build the capacity of the 
        organization to apply for Federal grants, conduct the 
        administrative and financial management of grants, and conduct 
        necessary reporting.
            (2) Requirement.--An entity seeking funds under paragraph 
        (1) must include in the letter of intent under subsection 
        (a)(2) a statement of need for capacity building support in 
        their application and reflect expected expenses in the budget 
        submitted with the application.

               TITLE IV--LABOR STANDARDS AND ENFORCEMENT

SEC. 401. MINIMUM LABOR STANDARDS FOR CLIMATE RESILIENCE WORKERS.

    (a) Entities Funded Through Grant Programs Created by This Act.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, an entity that, directly or indirectly, receives funds 
        under section 301 or 302, without regard to the form or type of 
        Federal assistance provided under such section or part, shall 
        comply with labor standards under this section.
            (2) Monitoring compliance.--Not later than 90 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Director, in 
        coordination with the Secretary, shall--
                    (A) develop a process to monitor compliance with 
                the labor standards specified in this section, 
                including coordination with the Climate Resilience 
                Workers Commission, that requires entities receiving 
                funding through the grant program established in 
                section 301 to provide information to demonstrate 
                compliance at any time during the grant period;
                    (B) issue rules to determine penalties for 
                noncompliance; and
                    (C) notify the Office of any entity that is 
                determined to be noncompliant.
            (3) Labor standards requirements.--The Director shall 
        require an entity, as a condition of eligibility to receive 
        funding under sections 301 to satisfy each of the following 
        requirements:
                    (A) The entity shall ensure that--
                            (i) all laborers and mechanics employed on 
                        projects funded directly, or assisted in whole 
                        or in part, by this Act shall be paid wages at 
                        rates not less than those prevailing on 
                        projects of a character similar in the locality 
                        as determined by the Secretary of Labor in 
                        accordance with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of 
                        part A of subtitle II of title 40, United 
                        States Code (commonly referred to as the 
                        ``Davis-Bacon Act'');
                            (ii) all individuals employed using funds 
                        under this Act in the manufacture or furnishing 
                        of materials, supplies, articles, or equipment 
                        under the contract will be paid wages at rates 
                        not less than employees performing similar work 
                        or in the particular or similar industries or 
                        groups of industries currently operating in the 
                        locality in which the materials, supplies, 
                        articles, or equipment are to be manufactured 
                        or furnished as determined by the Secretary of 
                        Labor in accordance with sections 6501 through 
                        6511 of title 41, United States Code (commonly 
                        referred to as the ``Public Contracts Act''); 
                        and
                            (iii) all individuals employed in the 
                        various classes of service employees using 
                        funds under this Act are paid wages at rates 
                        not less than the employees performing similar 
                        work in the locality as determined by the 
                        Secretary under chapter 67 of title 41, United 
                        States Code (commonly known as the ``Service 
                        Contract Act'').
                    (B) In the case of any project for which the total 
                cost exceeds $25,000,000, the entity shall be a party 
                to, or require contractors and subcontractors in the 
                performance of such project to be a party to a covered 
                project labor agreement.
                    (C) The entity, and all contractors and 
                subcontractors in performance of any project, shall 
                represent in the application submitted under sections 
                301 of this Act (and periodically thereafter during the 
                performance of the project as the Director may require) 
                whether there has been any administrative merits 
                determination, arbitral award or decision, or civil 
                judgment, as defined in guidance issued by the 
                Director, rendered against the entity in the preceding 
                3 years (or, in the case of disclosures after the 
                initial disclosure, during such period as the Director 
                may provide) for violations of--
                            (i) the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 
                        (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.);
                            (ii) the Occupational Safety and Health Act 
                        of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 651 et seq.);
                            (iii) the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural 
                        Worker Protection Act (29 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.);
                            (iv) the National Labor Relations Act (29 
                        U.S.C. 151 et seq.);
                            (v) subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 
                        40, United States Code (commonly referred to as 
                        the ``Davis-Bacon Act'');
                            (vi) chapter 67 of title 41, United States 
                        Code (commonly known as the ``Service Contract 
                        Act'');
                            (vii) sections 6501 through 6511 of title 
                        41, United States Code (commonly referred to as 
                        the ``Public Contracts Act'');
                            (viii) Executive Order 11246 (relating to 
                        equal employment opportunity);
                            (ix) section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act 
                        of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 793);
                            (x) section 4212 of title 38, United States 
                        Code;
                            (xi) the Family and Medical Leave Act of 
                        1993 (29 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.);
                            (xii) title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 
                        1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.);
                            (xiii) the Americans with Disabilities Act 
                        of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.);
                            (xiv) the Age Discrimination in Employment 
                        Act of 1967 (29 U.S.C. 621 et seq.);
                            (xv) sick leave for Federal contractors 
                        Executive order;
                            (xvi) leave provided under section 5102 of 
                        the Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act (29 U.S.C. 
                        2601 note);
                            (xvii) Executive Order 14026 (relating to 
                        the minimum wage for Federal contractors); or
                            (xviii) State laws with protections 
                        equivalent to the protections listed under this 
                        subparagraph, as defined in guidance issued by 
                        the Secretary of Labor not later than 90 days 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (D) The entity, and all contractors and 
                subcontractors in the performance of the project, may 
                not require arbitration for any dispute involving an 
                employee described in subparagraph (E) engaged in a 
                service for the entity or any contractor and 
                subcontractor, or enter into any agreement with such 
                employee requiring arbitration of any such dispute, 
                unless such employee is covered by a collective 
                bargaining agreement that provides otherwise.
                    (E) For purposes of compliance with the National 
                Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 151 et seq.), the Fair 
                Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), 
                and the requirements under this section, the entity, 
                and all contractors and subcontractors in the 
                performance of any project, shall consider an 
                individual performing any service in such performance 
                as an employee (and not an independent contractor) of 
                the entity, contractor, or subcontractor, respectively, 
                unless--
                            (i) the individual is free from control and 
                        direction in connection with the performance of 
                        the service, both under the contract for the 
                        performance of the service and in fact;
                            (ii) the service is performed outside the 
                        usual course of the business of the entity, 
                        contractor, or subcontractor, respectively; and
                            (iii) the individual is customarily engaged 
                        in an independently established trade, 
                        occupation, profession, or business of the same 
                        nature as that involved in such service.
                    (F) The entity shall prohibit all contractors and 
                subcontractors in the performance of any project from 
                hiring employees through a temporary staffing agency 
                unless the relevant State workforce agency certifies 
                that temporary employees are necessary to address an 
                acute, short-term labor demand.
                    (G) The entity shall require all contractors, 
                subcontractors, successors in interest of the entity, 
                and other entities that may acquire the entity, in the 
                performance or acquisition of any project, to have and 
                abide by an explicit neutrality policy on any issue 
                involving the exercise by employees of the entity as 
                described in paragraph (5), and of all contractors and 
                subcontractors in the performance of any project, of 
                the right to organize and bargain collectively through 
                representatives of their own choosing.
                    (H) Except for persons covered under subparagraph 
                (A)(1), the entity shall pay persons employed, in whole 
                or in part, using funds under this Act--
                            (i) for the 1-year period beginning on the 
                        date of enactment, not less than $15 per hour;
                            (ii) for each year thereafter, the amount 
                        determined by the Secretary under paragraph 
                        (4).
            (4) Increase in minimum wage.--
                    (A) In general.--The wage determined by the 
                Secretary under this paragraph shall be equal to the 
                amount in effect for the previous year--
                            (i) increased by the annual percentage 
                        increase, if any, in the median hourly wage of 
                        all employees as determined by the Bureau of 
                        Labor Statistics; and
                            (ii) rounded up to the nearest multiple of 
                        $0.05.
                    (B) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section 
                shall be construed preempt the application of higher 
                wage scales determined by Federal, State, or municipal 
                law or regulation or collective bargaining agreements.
            (5) Additional worker rights.--The following provisions 
        shall apply with respect to any individual employed using funds 
        under section 301:
                    (A) Private right of action for violations.--
                            (i) In general.--Any employer who violates 
                        the provisions of section 401(a)(3) or 
                        subparagraph (B) or (E) shall be liable to the 
                        employee or employees affected in the amount 
                        of--
                                    (I) unpaid minimum wages or their 
                                unpaid overtime compensation, as the 
                                case may be;
                                    (II) an additional equal amount as 
                                liquidated damages, back pay, 
                                compensatory damages, and punitive 
                                damages, as the Secretary determines 
                                appropriate; and
                                    (III) such legal or equitable 
                                relief as may be appropriate to 
                                effectuate the purposes of these 
                                sections, including without limitation 
                                employment, reinstatement, promotion, 
                                and the payment of wages lost and an 
                                additional equal amount as liquidated 
                                damages.
                            (ii) Private right.--An action to recover 
                        the liability prescribed in clause (i) may be 
                        maintained against any employer (including a 
                        public agency) in any Federal or State court of 
                        competent jurisdiction by any one or more 
                        employees for and in behalf of themself, 
                        themselves and other employees similarly 
                        situated. The court in such action shall, in 
                        addition to any judgment awarded to the 
                        plaintiff or plaintiffs, allow a reasonable 
                        attorney's fee to be paid by the defendant, and 
                        costs of the action.
                            (iii) Enforcement by the secretary.--The 
                        Secretary may bring an action in any court of 
                        competent jurisdiction to recover damages 
                        described in clause (i).
                    (B) Whistleblower protections.--It shall be 
                unlawful for any person to discharge or in any other 
                manner discriminate against any employee because such 
                employee has filed any complaint or instituted or 
                caused to be instituted any proceeding under or related 
                to this chapter, or has testified or is about to 
                testify in any such proceeding, or has served or is 
                about to serve on an industry committee.
                    (C) Joint and several liability.--Each entity, 
                including grantees, contractors and subcontractors, 
                will be joint and severally liable for all violations 
                of minimum labor standards under this title, regardless 
                of current regulations and court decisions related to 
                standards for joint employment. It shall not be a 
                defense that the work was subcontracted.
                    (D) Health insurance requirement.--In the case of 
                an absence of a collective bargaining agreement, the 
                minimum health insurance requirement for workers under 
                this title is fully employer-paid health insurance 
                coverage that at least meets the level of a Silver plan 
                as defined by the Affordable Care Act.
                    (E) Leave provisions.--Paid vacation, paid 
                holidays, sick leave, and family leave in an amount 
                equivalent to that received by comparably employed 
                Federal employees and safe leave equivalent to 
                subsection (b)(2) shall be provided to each worker, 
                depending upon the years of employment with the entity.
            (6) Union representation.--
                    (A) In general.--No employer shall receive funds 
                under this Act unless employees who perform or will 
                perform work funded under this Act (including employees 
                of an entity with which the employer contracts for the 
                performance of work funded under this Act) are 
                represented for purposes of collective bargaining by a 
                labor organization.
                    (B) Exception.--The restriction under subparagraph 
                (A) shall not apply if--
                            (i) the employer certifies that such 
                        employees are covered by a labor harmony 
                        agreement or that no labor organization 
                        represents or has expressed interest in 
                        representing such employees;
                            (ii) no employee has expressed interest in 
                        representation by a labor organization;
                            (iii) the Department of Labor publishes the 
                        certification required under clause (i); and
                            (iv) after a reasonable period of not less 
                        than 90 days following the publication under 
                        clause (ii), no labor organization disputes the 
                        certification and the employer again certifies 
                        that such employees are covered by a labor 
                        harmony agreement or that no labor organization 
                        represents or has expressed interest in 
                        representing such employees for the purposes of 
                        collective bargaining.
                    (C) Restriction.--No such employee may be compelled 
                to become a member of a labor organization as a 
                condition of employment.
                    (D) Funding restriction.--The restriction under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be both a prerequisite to 
                receiving funds and an ongoing condition of receiving 
                funds, except in cases in which a majority of such 
                employees vote pursuant to section 9 of the National 
                Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 159) to decertify an 
                incumbent labor organization representative during the 
                course of funded work.
                    (E) Labor harmony agreement defined.--In this 
                paragraph, the term ``labor harmony agreement'' means a 
                written agreement between an employer and a labor 
                organization representing, or seeking to represent, 
                employees that contains, at a minimum, a provision 
                prohibiting the labor organization and its members from 
                engaging in any work stoppage or other economic 
                interference with the employer's funded operations for 
                the duration of the funded work.
    (b) Federal Employment Established Under This Act.--Any Federal 
Government position established under this Act shall be a position in 
the competitive service and classified under the General Schedule at a 
level not less than step 1 of GS-04.
    (c) Workers Hired Through Other Federal Funding Streams.--Entities 
hiring workers via the Federal funding streams noted in section 
402(c)(1) may be eligible to apply for the Good Climate Resilience Jobs 
Grant program if they agree to adhere to the minimum labor standards 
outlined in this section.
    (d) National Emergencies.--Eligible entities shall not fail to 
comply with the standards put forth in this title even in case of 
natural disaster or other national emergency. Suspensions of worker 
protections including but not limited to suspensions of section 1 of 
the Davis-Bacon Act of March 3, 1931 (46 Stat. 1494, as amended, 40 
U.S.C. 3147) shall not constitute permissible circumstances for failure 
by eligible entities to comply with this title.
    (e) Application of Other Law.--For purposes of any job created 
using funds provided under this Act, the requirements of section 
22.1803 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations, shall not apply.

SEC. 402. GOOD CLIMATE RESILIENCE JOBS GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the enactment of 
this Act, the Department of Labor Secretary shall establish a Good 
Climate Resilience Jobs Grant program.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the grant program is to incentivize 
entities receiving Federal funds from existing Federal programs that 
fund climate disaster recovery and rebuilding activities to adhere to 
the minimum labor standards outlined in section 401 in employing 
workers hired using Federal funds.
    (c) Eligibility.--
            (1) Entities receiving Federal funds from the following 
        programs are eligible to apply for the Good Climate Resilience 
        Jobs Grant program:
                    (A) Community Development Block Grant of the 
                Department of Housing and Urban Development, including 
                but not limited to amounts appropriated for disaster 
                relief.
                    (B) National Flood Insurance Program.
                    (C) Federal Highway Emergency Funds.
                    (D) United States Army Corps of Engineers Disaster 
                Relief Funds.
                    (E) The Infrastructure and Communities Grant 
                Program of the Federal Emergency Management 
                Administration.
                    (F) The Coastal Resilience Grant Program of the 
                National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
            (2) Entities that attest that they are applying for or 
        currently receiving Federal funds through the grant programs 
        named in subsection (c)(1) shall be eligible for a matching 
        grant of up to the full amount received through the programs 
        named in subsection (c)(1).
            (3) Entities must be wiling to submit to Department of 
        Labor any information requested to verify that the entity is 
        complying with the minimum labor standards outlined in section 
        401 of this Act.
            (4) Entities may use matching funds for the following 
        purposes:
                    (A) Payment of the non-Federal share required in 
                connection with a Federal grant-in-aid program 
                undertaken as part of the programs listed in subsection 
                (c)(1).
                    (B) Payment of the premium for the National Flood 
                Insurance Program.
                    (C) For the projects for which entities have 
                received funding through the grant programs named in 
                subsection (c)(1).
    (d) Notification.--Not later than 90 days after the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Federal 
Emergency Management Administrator, Secretary of Department of 
Transportation, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, and Director of the United States Army 
Corps must amend the application processes pertaining to the programs 
named in subsection (c)(1) to include information about the Good 
Climate Resilience Jobs Grant program. Existing applicants and 
recipients to the programs listed in subsection (c)(1) shall be 
notified of the grant program and given the opportunity to apply with 
60 days of notification.
    (e) Grant Process, Compliance and Enforcement.--
            (1) In general.--The Department of Labor Secretary shall 
        establish processes for reviewing grant applications, notifying 
        applicants of award decisions, administering grant funds, 
        verifying compliance with the minimum labor standards outlined 
        in section 401 of this Act, and penalties for noncompliance.
            (2) Maintenance of records.--The Administrator of the 
        Federal Emergency Management Agency shall direct companies 
        participating in the Write Your Own Program to maintain records 
        pertaining to the labor standards outlined in section 401 of 
        this Act for all workers hired using National Flood Insurance 
        Program funds.

SEC. 403. CLIMATE RESILIENCE WORKERS COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Department of Labor shall 
establish a Climate Resilience Workers Commission within the Office of 
the Secretary.
    (b) Authority.--The Commission shall be authorized to--
            (1) identify whistleblower procedures that will most 
        effectively allow climate resilience workers to identify 
        violations of Federal, State, and local labor and employment 
        laws, and to report those violations and seek investigation, 
        redress and compensation without suffering retaliation;
            (2) identify, recommend and implement a practice by which 
        to provide warnings to entities in violation of minimum labor 
        standards and workers' rights, to notify the Office of the 
        Secretary of any entities that violate standards and rights, 
        and make recommendations on penalties and transfer of grant 
        funding, jobs, and workers funded through noncompliant entities 
        to other eligible entities without any job loss for climate 
        resilience workers;
            (3) collaborate with divisions and offices within the 
        Department of Labor to identify ways by which to promote, 
        enforce, improve, and expand applicable worker protections;
            (4) make recommendations on regulations and subregulatory 
        guidances;
            (5) convene climate resilience stakeholders for meetings 
        and forums, including the Climate Resilience Worker Safety 
        Committee program described in section 601(d)(2);
            (6) operate cross-agency task forces in order to pursue the 
        goals and standards of this Act; and
            (7) engage in such other actions as may be under the 
        authority of the Department of Labor to pursue the goals of 
        this Act.
    (c) Commission Membership.--
            (1) Chair.--The Chair of the Commission will be appointed 
        by the Secretary.
                    (A) Members.--The Commission shall be composed of 
                not less than 20 additional individuals, selected by 
                the Chair of the Commission from nominees proposed 
                pursuant to subparagraph (B), as follows:
                            (i) Not less than 10 members shall be 
                        individuals who are members of frontline 
                        communities.
                            (ii) Not less than 8 members shall be 
                        individuals who are members of, or advocate on 
                        behalf of, or both, populations facing barriers 
                        to employment.
                            (iii) The Commission shall include a broad 
                        and representative group of labor, worker and 
                        workforce development stakeholders.
                            (iv) The Commission shall include 
                        representatives from relevant Federal agencies 
                        including the Department of Labor's 
                        Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
                        and Wage and Hour Division, the Department of 
                        Homeland Security's United States Citizenship 
                        and Immigration Services and Federal Emergency 
                        Management Agency, the Department of Justice, 
                        and the Equal Employment Opportunity 
                        Commission.
                    (B) Nomination.--Nominees for members of the 
                Commission shall be proposed by any grantee or 
                subgrantee under this Act.
                    (C) Report.--Upon selection of members of the 
                Commission, the Commission shall submit a report to 
                Congress identifying the members selected and 
                demonstration of compliance with the provisions of this 
                subsection.
                    (D) Terms.--Members of the Commission shall serve 
                terms of 2 years.
            (2) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet in person not less 
        often than twice each year.
            (3) Compensation.--The Secretary shall establish guidelines 
        and a process for providing compensation to individuals who 
        would otherwise not be able to participate or who would 
        experience financial hardship without such compensation.
            (4) Rule of construction.--The agencies implementing this 
        Act shall construe this Act in a manner that facilitates and 
        encourage the full participation of Commission members and 
        shall consider the barriers faced by frontline communities and 
        populations facing barriers to employment and shall endeavor to 
        overcome such barriers to participation.
            (5) Applicability of faca.--Section 14 of the Federal 
        Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply with 
        respect to the Commission.

SEC. 404. WORKERS EMPLOYED USING STAFFORD ACT FUNDS.

    Section 611(j) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5196(j)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(10)(A) All laborers, mechanics and other workers employed by 
contractors or subcontractors who are have been determined by the 
Center for the Climate Resilience Workforce to be performing work 
within climate resilience sectors as defined in section 7 of the 
Climate Resilience Workforce Act and financed with the assistance of 
any contribution of Federal funds made by the Administrator under this 
subsection shall have the right of the labor standards detailed in 
section 401 of the Climate Resilience Workforce Act.
    ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall apply to workers employed by 
contractors or subcontractors who are financed with the assistance of 
any contributions of Federal funds made by the Administrator through PA 
Grants (42 U.S.C. 5172), BRIC (42 U.S.C. 5133), or Hazard Mitigation 
Grants (42 U.S.C. 5170c), including the Flood Mitigation Assistance 
Grant Program (42 U.S.C. 4104c).
    ``(C) The application of these labor standards are not limited to 
construction workers or mechanics.''.

SEC. 405. PAID LEAVE FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES WHO ARE VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC 
              VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, OR STALKING.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 63 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 6329d. Leave for victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, 
              or stalking
    ``(a) An employee shall be entitled to leave, without loss of or 
reduction in the pay, for any reason described in subsection (b) if the 
employee or a spouse, family member, or household member of the 
employee is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
    ``(b) The reasons described in this subsection are the following:
            ``(1) For the employee to seek legal or law enforcement 
        assistance or remedies to ensure the health and safety of the 
        employee or the employee's family member or household member 
        including preparing for, or participating in, any civil or 
        criminal legal proceeding related to or derived from domestic 
        violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
            ``(2) For the employee to seek treatment by a health care 
        provider for physical or mental injuries caused by domestic 
        violence, sexual assault, or stalking, or to attend to health 
        care treatment for a victim who is the employee's family member 
        or household member.
            ``(3) For the employee to obtain, or assist a family member 
        or household member in obtaining, services from a domestic 
        violence shelter, rape crisis center, or other social services 
        program for relief from domestic violence, sexual assault, or 
        stalking.
            ``(4) For the employee to obtain, or assist a family or 
        household member in obtaining, mental health counseling related 
        to an incident of domestic violence, sexual assault, or 
        stalking, in which the employee or the employee's family member 
        or household member was a victim of domestic violence, sexual 
        assault, or stalking.
            ``(5) For the employee to participate in safety planning, 
        temporarily or permanently relocate, or take other actions to 
        increase the safety of the employee or employee's family member 
        or household member from future domestic violence, sexual 
        assault, or stalking.
    ``(c)(1) Paid leave provided to an employee pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall--
            ``(A) accrue one hour for each 40-hour workweek (or 
        equivalent) and shall accumulate for use in succeeding years;
            ``(B) be payable from any appropriation or fund available 
        for salaries or expenses for positions within the employing 
        agency; and
            ``(C) not be considered to be annual or vacation leave for 
        purposes of section 5551 or 5552 or for any other purpose.
    ``(2) Paid leave accrued or accumulated by an employee under this 
section may be transferred to and for the use of any other employee if 
such other employee requires additional leave under this section.
    ``(3) If an employee uses paid leave under this section for a 
period of three consecutive days or longer, the employing agency may 
require that the employee provide certification supporting the absence, 
including a written statement by the employee, a police report, a court 
order, or a written statement by an advocate (including an attorney 
representing the employee, a member of clergy, a medical professional, 
or an advocate for victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, or 
stalking).
    ``(4) The employing agency shall keep confidential any information 
provided by an employee to the employing agency relating to using leave 
under this section unless--
            ``(A) the employee provides written consent of the 
        disclosure of such information; or
            ``(B) the employing agency is ordered to disclose such 
        information by a court order or by law.
    ``(5) An employee shall not directly or indirectly intimidate, 
threaten, or coerce, or attempt to intimidate, threaten, or coerce, any 
other employee for the purpose of interfering with the exercise of any 
rights which such other employee may have under this section. In this 
paragraph, the term `intimidate, threaten, or coerce' has the meaning 
given that term in section 6385(b)(1).
    ``(d) In this section--
            ``(1) the term `employee' has the meaning given such term 
        in section 2105 and includes--
                    ``(A) an officer or employee of the United States 
                Postal Service or the Postal Regulatory Commission;
                    ``(B) an officer or employee of the Federal 
                Aviation Authority or the Transportation Security 
                Administration; and
                    ``(C) notwithstanding subsection (a) of section 
                7421 of title 38, an individual occupying a position 
                listed in subsection (b) of such section;
            ``(2) the term `family member' means the child (including 
        an adopted child, a recognized natural child, a stepchild, or a 
        foster child), spouse, parent, grandparent, or grandchild of 
        the employee;
            ``(3) the term `household member' means a former spouse of 
        an employee, a former domestic partner of an employee, any 
        individual who has a child in common with the employee 
        (regardless of whether they have been married or have lived 
        together at any time), any adult individual related to the 
        employee by blood or marriage, any individual 16 years of age 
        or older who is residing with the employee or who has resided 
        with the employee, any individual who has a biological or legal 
        parent-child relationship with the employee, and any individual 
        with whom the employee has a dating relationship; and
            ``(4) the terms `domestic violence', `sexual assault', and 
        `stalking' have the meaning given those terms in section 
        40002(a) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 
        12291 et seq.).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for such subchapter 
is amended by adding at the end the following:

``6329d. Leave for victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, or 
                            stalking.''.

SEC. 406. GAO REPORT ON FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRY.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General shall conduct a study 
focused on jobs within the Federal Prison Industries. The study shall 
include--
            (1) type of work conducted, including jobs that relate to 
        the climate resilience sectors specified in section 7 of this 
        Act;
            (2) rate of pay;
            (3) hours worked;
            (4) worker concerns and issues; and
            (5) work-related injuries and illnesses.
    (b) Publication.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Comptroller General shall publish a report of the 
study findings and report to the relevant congressional committees, at 
minimum the Education and Labor and Judiciary committees.

                TITLE V--REMOVING BARRIERS TO EMPLOYMENT

SEC. 501. IMMIGRATION BARRIERS.

    (a) Temporary Relief From Removal.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, an alien seeking employment or training in the 
climate resilience sector is eligible for status under this section. An 
alien with status under this section may not be removed, and the 
Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide such alien with employment 
authorization. Such status shall be valid for a period of 2 years, and 
may not be renewed. The Secretary shall provide an eligible alien with 
such status if the alien submits an affidavit of interest in employment 
or training in a climate resilience sector, as defined in section 7 of 
this Act, and thereafter submits further evidence to that effect, 
including registration for relevant training courses or applications 
for such employment.
    (b) Certified Climate Resilience Worker Status.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the Secretary of Homeland Security may accord an alien 
        status as a Certified Climate Resilience Worker (hereinafter in 
        this section referred to as ``CRW status'') if that alien has 
        been present in the United States (without regard to the 
        immigration status of that alien during such presence) for not 
        less than 1 year and--
                    (A) is an alien who has--
                            (i) been employed in a climate resilience 
                        sector for at least 90 days in the past year 
                        (including any employment while incarcerated);
                            (ii) completed a workforce training program 
                        in a climate resilience sector; or
                            (iii) been enrolled in a workforce training 
                        program in a climate resilience sector for at 
                        least 90 days in the past year (including any 
                        training while in detention); or
                    (B) is the spouse, child, son, daughter, or parent 
                of an alien described in subparagraph (A).
            (2) Conversion from temporary status.--An alien with 
        temporary status under subsection (a) may convert such status 
        to CRW status, and the spouse, child, son, daughter, or parent 
        of that alien shall also be accorded CRW status.
            (3) Evidentiary requirement.--An alien who adjusts status 
        under paragraph (1) or (2) shall submit a petition for CRW 
        status, which shall include the following:
                    (A) Proof of presence in the United States for a 
                period of not less than 1 year ending on the date of 
                application.
                    (B) In the case of an alien adjusting status under 
                paragraph (1)(A), at least one of the following:
                            (i) Employer certification of employment in 
                        a climate resilience sector.
                            (ii) Employment records of such employment.
                            (iii) Union dues records in the course of 
                        such employment.
                            (iv) Certification of completion in a 
                        workforce training program.
                            (v) Proof of continuous enrollment in a 
                        workforce training program.
                            (vi) In the case that none of clauses (i) 
                        through (v) are possible, a self-attestation of 
                        work experience that includes an affidavit from 
                        fellow employees.
                    (C) In the case of an alien adjusting status under 
                paragraph (1)(A)(ii), proof of residence as alleged 
                under such paragraph.
            (4) Term of status.--CRW status under this subsection shall 
        be valid for a period of 2 years, and may be renewed for not 
        less than a total period of 10 years.
            (5) Extenuating circumstances.--The Secretary may waive any 
        requirement under paragraph (1)(A) in any case of extenuating 
        circumstances, including disability, pregnancy, or care of a 
        dependent.
    (c) Adjustment to Lawful Permanent Residence.--
            (1) In general.--An alien with CRW status may adjust to 
        status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
        residence beginning not earlier than 18 months after receiving 
        CRW status, except that the time period may be include any time 
        spent in temporary status.
            (2) Waivers of inadmissibility.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law and for purposes of this section, the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General may 
        waive the operation of any one or more grounds of 
        inadmissibility set forth in section 212 of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act for humanitarian purposes, to assure family 
        unity, or when it is otherwise in the public interest.
            (3) Waivers of deportability.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law and for purposes of this section, the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General may 
        waive the operation of any one or more grounds of removal set 
        forth in section 237 of the Immigration and Nationality Act for 
        humanitarian purposes, to assure family unity, or when it is 
        otherwise in the public interest.
    (d) Naturalization.--
            (1) In general.--A person who is a lawful permanent 
        resident may file an application for naturalization under this 
        subsection.
            (2) Exceptions to general rules of naturalization.--Such 
        person shall comply in all other respects with the requirements 
        of title III of the Immigration and Nationality Act, except 
        that such person may be naturalized not earlier than 3 years 
        after the date that person becomes a lawful permanent resident, 
        or 2 years in the case of such a person who is married to a 
        United States national.
    (e) Work Protection.--Any employer who provides certification under 
subsection (b)(3)(B) may not be held criminally or civilly liable under 
any provision of Federal law or State law for any unlawful employment 
of the person whose employment is so certified.
    (f) Removal of Citizenship Requirement for Certain Employment.--
Nothing in section 303 or section 622 of the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act may be construed to 
authorize any prohibition on employment of any person who is otherwise 
authorized for employment in the United States.
    (g) Access to Services.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, an alien with CRW status or status under subsection (a) shall be 
considered lawfully present in the United States for all purposes. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, individuals with CRW status 
or status under subsection (a) shall be considered lawfully present for 
purposes of eligibility for Federal health care programs (as defined in 
section 1128B(f) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b(f))).
    (h) Definitions.--Terms used in this section have the meanings 
given such terms in section 101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act.

SEC. 502. CRIMINAL JUSTICE BARRIERS.

    (a) Ban the Box.--
            (1) Federal employees.--
                    (A) Pre-offer.--Application for appointment in the 
                civil service in any position that would be considered 
                to be employment in a climate resilience sector if such 
                position was with a private employer shall be subject 
                to the provisions of section 9202 of title 5, United 
                States Code.
                    (B) Post-offer.--If an offer of such an appointment 
                in the civil service has been made to an applicant, any 
                record of conviction of such applicant may not be taken 
                into account thereafter for purposes of such an 
                appointment, except as provided in subparagraph (C).
                    (C) Exception.--Subparagraph does not apply to the 
                extent--
                            (i) a record of conviction was entered not 
                        earlier than 5 years prior to the date of 
                        application; and
                            (ii) the offense for which such record of 
                        conviction was entered would have a specific 
                        and particularized effect on the ability of the 
                        person to discharge the duties of the position.
                    (D) Procedural protections for post offer.--In the 
                case of an applicant whose offer is revoked pursuant to 
                a determination that the exception set forth in 
                subparagraph (C) applies the following shall apply:
                            (i) The appointing authority shall provide 
                        the applicant a written copy of any background 
                        report, and shall identify each item in the 
                        report that the authority has determined 
                        pertains to the ability of the applicant to 
                        discharge the duties of the position sought, 
                        and a written justification of that 
                        determination.
                            (ii) For a period of 60 days beginning on 
                        the date of the receipt of the materials under 
                        clause (i), an applicant may submit a written 
                        disputation of the accuracy of the criminal 
                        record and provide mitigating evidence or 
                        evidence of rehabilitation.
                            (iii) If, after reviewing the submission 
                        under clause (ii), the authority determines 
                        that the record disqualifies the applicant, the 
                        authority shall send a letter notifying the 
                        applicant of that determination, and explaining 
                        the reasons for that determination.
            (2) Federal contractors.--Section 4714 of title 41, United 
        States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``and'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (B) 
                        the following:
                    ``(C) shall require, as a condition of receiving a 
                Federal contract for work in a climate resilience 
                sector (as such term is defined section 7 of the 
                Climate Resilience Workforce Act) and receiving 
                payments under such contract that the contractor comply 
                with the requirements of subsection (d).'';
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
                (e); and
                    (C) by inserting after subsection (c) the 
                following:
    ``(d) Climate Resilience Workers.--The requirements under this 
subsection are as follows:
            ``(1) A contractor may not conduct any inquiry into the 
        criminal history of an applicant prior to making a 
        determination to make a conditional offer.
            ``(2) In the case of a contractor who determines to revoke 
        a conditional offer to an applicant because of that applicant's 
        criminal record, the contractor shall submit a written 
        justification of each such decision to the contractor monitor 
        on a quarterly basis.
            ``(3) The contractor may not subsequently revoke the 
        conditional offer solely on the basis of a conviction--
                    ``(A) that is over 5 years old; and
                    ``(B) that is for an offense that would not have a 
                specific and particularized effect on the ability of 
                the applicant to discharge the duties of the position.
            ``(4) Before a final decision on whether to extend an offer 
        of employment, the contractor shall provide the applicant a 
        written copy of any background report, and shall identify each 
        item in the report that the contractor has determined pertains 
        to the ability of the applicant to discharge the duties of the 
        position sought, and a written justification of that 
        determination.
            ``(5) For a period of 60 days beginning on the date of the 
        receipt of the materials under paragraph (4), an applicant may 
        submit to the contractor a written disputation of the accuracy 
        of the criminal record and provide mitigating evidence or 
        evidence of rehabilitation. Such submission may also include 
        any relevant legal or other information contextualizing or 
        characterizing such criminal record.
            ``(6) If, after reviewing the submission under paragraph 
        (5), the contractor determines that the record disqualifies the 
        applicant, the employer shall send a letter notifying the 
        applicant of that determination, and explaining the reasons for 
        that determination.''.
    (b) TANF Assistance and SNAP Benefits.--
            (1) Repeal of ban on assistance.--Section 115 of the 
        Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act 
        of 1996 (21 U.S.C. 862a) is repealed.
            (2) Effect on state elections to opt out or limit period of 
        prohibition.--
                    (A) Definitions.--In this subsection--
                            (i) the term ``State'' has the meaning 
                        given the term in section 115(e) of the 
                        Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
                        Reconciliation Act of 1996 (21 U.S.C. 862a(e)) 
                        (as in effect on the day before the date of 
                        enactment of this Act); and
                            (ii) the term ``TANF assistance or SNAP 
                        benefits'' means assistance or benefits 
                        referred to in section 115(a) of the Personal 
                        Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
                        Reconciliation Act of 1996 (as in effect on the 
                        day before the date of enactment of this Act).
                    (B) Effect on state policies.--Any law enacted by a 
                State under the authority under subparagraph (A) or (B) 
                of subsection (d)(1) of section 115 of the Personal 
                Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act 
                of 1996 (21 U.S.C. 862a), and any State law, policy, or 
                regulation that imposes conditions on eligibility for 
                the supplemental nutrition assistance program and 
                temporary assistance for needy families program based 
                on an individual's conviction of an offense related to 
                a controlled substance, shall have no force or effect.
    (c) Modification of Definition of Household for the Purpose of 
Determining SNAP Benefits.--Section 3(m)(5) of the Food and Nutrition 
Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2012(m)(5)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
                    ``(H) Incarcerated individuals who are scheduled to 
                be released from an institution within 30 days.''.

SEC. 503. DRUG TESTING BARRIERS.

    Any person employed in a climate resilience sector who is, in the 
course of such employment, present in a State wherein recreational use 
of marihuana (as such term is defined in the Controlled Substances Act) 
is lawful may not be disqualified from participation in any job 
training program under this Act or terminated from any covered 
employment on the basis of a federally mandated drug test that is more 
stringent than any drug test that is in place in the locality or State, 
or used by the union of such employee.

SEC. 504. TASKFORCE ON WORKER INCLUSION.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a Taskforce on Worker 
Inclusion (hereinafter in this section referred to as the 
``Taskforce'') within the Climate Resilience Workers Commission 
established under section 403 of this Act, which shall be responsible 
for establishing programs and best practices to support workers who 
traditionally face barriers to employment.
    (b) Chair.--Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Chair of the Climate Reliance Workers Commission shall 
appoint a chair to head the Taskforce.
    (c) Composition.--The Taskforce shall be composed of individuals 
appointed by the chair not later than 90 days after the appointment of 
the chair under subsection (b), as follows:
            (1) Not less than one representative of the Department of 
        Labor.
            (2) Not less than one representative of the Department of 
        Homeland Security.
            (3) Not less than one representative of the Department of 
        Justice.
            (4) Not less than one representative of the Legal Services 
        Corporation.
            (5) Not less than one expert on immigration policy.
            (6) Not less than one expert on criminal justice policy.
            (7) Not less than one formerly incarcerated individual.
            (8) Not less than one individual who formerly was present 
        in the United States without status under the immigration laws.
            (9) Not less than one representative of employers in 
        climate resilience sectors.
    (d) Vacancies.--In the case of any vacancy on the Taskforce, the 
chair may appoint a replacement member.
    (e) Programs.--The programs referred to in subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) providing grants to the Legal Service Corporation to 
        provide assistance, including legal assistance or payment of 
        fees or fines, to workers in the climate resilience sector in--
                    (A) applying for status as a Certified Climate 
                Resilience Worker under section 501 and further 
                adjusting their status to pursue citizenship;
                    (B) seeking restoration of rights including 
                expungements, dismissals, record sealing, fee waivers, 
                certificates of rehabilitation, diversion programs, and 
                pardons; and
                    (C) seeking licensure in a field that has barriers 
                for immigrants or workers with criminal history 
                records.
            (2) conducting education and outreach, in multiple 
        languages, on status as a Certified Climate Resilience Worker 
        under section 501 and hiring opportunities for foreign-born 
        workers, formerly incarcerated workers, and workers with 
        criminal history records, and other benefits; and
            (3) establishing training and best practices for the 
        hiring, recruitment, and retention of foreign-born workers, 
        formerly incarcerated workers, and workers with criminal 
        history records.
    (f) Reimbursement for Fines or Fees.--The Taskforce shall by rule 
establish procedures under which a worker in a climate resilience 
sector may apply for reimbursement for the payment of any fine or fee 
associated with--
            (1) applying for status as a Certified Climate Resilience 
        Worker under section 501 and further adjusting their status to 
        pursue citizenship;
            (2) seeking restoration of rights including expungements, 
        dismissals, record sealing, fee waivers, certificates of 
        rehabilitation, diversion programs, and pardons; and
            (3) seeking licensure in a field that has barriers for 
        immigrants or workers with criminal history records.
    (g) Trust Fund.--There is a established a trust fund, to be known 
as the Climate Resilience Workforce Trust Fund (hereinafter in this 
section referred to as the ``Fund'') which shall be available to the 
Taskforce, without fiscal year limitation, for purposes of carrying out 
this section, including reimbursement under subsection (f).

TITLE VI--PROVISIONS RELATED TO CLIMATE RESILIENCE WORKERS INVOLVED IN 
                    DISASTER RECOVERY AND REBUILDING

SEC. 601. SUPPORTS FOR DISASTER RECOVERY WORKERS.

    (a) Grants for Disaster Recovery and Rebuilding Training and Hiring 
Halls.--
            (1) Training.--Entities receiving grants in section 302 to 
        support the training of disaster recovery and rebuilding 
        workers must ensure that such training includes the following 
        components, as the Secretary determines relevant to such 
        workers:
                    (A) Ten-hour training provided by the Occupational 
                Safety and Health Administration.
                    (B) Basic health and safety training on mold 
                exposure, lead paint, asbestos and heat exposure.
                    (C) Basic first aid and CPR, following the American 
                Red Cross model.
                    (D) Training with respect to preservation of mental 
                health, including self-care.
                    (E) Basic workplace rights.
                    (F) Any other training that the Secretary 
                determines appropriate to the circumstances of climate-
                related disasters.
                    (G) Skill-based training focused on community 
                recovery and rebuilding after disasters must include 
                training on rebuilding techniques that increase 
                community resilience.
                    (H) Training must be:
                            (i) Accessible to various levels of 
                        literacy.
                            (ii) Provided in languages other than 
                        English, as relevant to the population of 
                        individuals seeking training.
                            (iii) Available during evenings and 
                        weekends.
            (2) Hiring halls.--Grant funds under section 302 to benefit 
        climate resilience workers may be used for the following 
        purposes:
                    (A) To operate worker hiring halls with set wages 
                and working conditions.
                    (B) To cover workers compensation, unemployment, 
                health insurance and bonding with respect to workers 
                hired through hiring halls to incentivize employers to 
                come to and use the hiring halls.
                    (C) Grantees may create virtual hiring halls for 
                areas where brick and mortar hiring halls are not 
                available or feasible.
    (b) Organization and Representation.--
            (1) In general.--All rights and procedures under the 
        National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 151 et seq.) shall 
        apply to all workers employed using funds in this section in 
        the private sector.
            (2) Federal government application.--All rights under the 
        title VII of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 shall apply 
        to all workers employed by the Federal Government.
            (3) Section 7 protections.--The rights to engage in 
        concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining 
        or other mutual aid or protection under section 7 of the 
        National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 157) shall apply with 
        respect to an employee who is employed by an employer who 
        receives funds under this Act and who is seeking to form or is 
        otherwise engaged with a worker association.
    (c) Health and Safety.--
            (1) Health and safety fund.--
                    (A) Establishment.--There is established in the 
                Treasury of the United States a Climate Resilience 
                Worker Health and Safety Fund (in this section, 
                referred to as the `Fund'), which consists of sums that 
                are appropriated to the Fund under this section.
                    (B) Purpose.--Amounts in the fund shall be 
                available--
                            (i) for the benefit of resilience workers 
                        with short and long-term health problems 
                        related to their service in climate disaster 
                        response, recovery, and rebuilding; and
                            (ii) for wage replacement for workers 
                        should they be unable to work due to health 
                        problems related to their service.
                    (C) Fee collection.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary shall impose 
                        a per-employee fee on every employer. Funds 
                        received under this clause shall be deposited 
                        into the Fund.
                            (ii) Guidance.--Not later than 120 days 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                        Secretary shall issue guidance, in consultation 
                        from the Center for the Climate Resilience 
                        Workforce, specifying the fee amount, frequency 
                        and mechanism for collection. The fee must be 
                        sufficient enough to cover the potential 
                        expenses climate disaster recovery workers may 
                        incur.
            (2) Safety committee program.--
                    (A) Establishment.--The Chair of the Climate 
                Resilience Workers Commission shall establish a Climate 
                Resilience Worker Safety Committee program (in this 
                paragraph referred to as the ``program'') within the 
                Office of the Secretary at the Department of Labor. In 
                carrying out the program, the Chair shall support 
                safety committees in each labor market where climate 
                disaster recovery workers are employed.
                    (B) Purpose.--The purpose of the committees shall 
                be to ensure the on-the-ground safety of workers 
                engaged in disaster recovery and rebuilding work while 
                at their work sites.
                    (C) Functions.--The Committees shall--
                            (i) review and make recommendations 
                        pertaining to safety training provided by local 
                        training providers; and
                            (ii) stop work when work conditions are 
                        unsafe.
                    (D) Formation, structure and support.--
                            (i) Election.--The members of the safety 
                        committees will be elected by resilience 
                        workers in the labor market.
                            (ii) Chair.--A Chair for each safety 
                        committee shall be elected by committee 
                        members. Such chair shall be the primary point 
                        of contact for the regional office of the 
                        Department of Labor.
                            (iii) Reporting.--The safety committee 
                        shall report any violations of minimum labor 
                        standards laid out in this Act to a regional 
                        office of the Department of Labor, which may 
                        conduct an investigation and take enforcement 
                        actions using the existing authorities of the 
                        Secretary.
                            (iv) Enforcement.--A regional office may 
                        elevate violations to the Commission for 
                        further enforcement as needed.
                    (E) Labor market defined.--The term ``labor 
                market'' means a disaster recovery area as designated 
                in a Federal major disaster declaration.
            (3) Liability.--The employer and with the general 
        contractor shall be liable for all health problems caused in 
        whole or in part by participation in climate disaster response 
        and recovery for all employees employed using funds under this 
        section.
            (4) Wellness checks.--An employer receiving funds under 
        this section shall ensure that workers receive annual wellness 
        checks at community health clinics or federally qualified 
        health centers specific to the conditions under which they have 
        been working. Such employer shall cover the full cost of such 
        wellness checks.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations for Training Supports.--There 
is authorized to be appropriated to the Director $20,000,000 for fiscal 
year 2021, and each fiscal year thereafter, for the Susan G. Harwood 
Occupational Safety and Health grant program, of which not less than 
$10,000,000 each fiscal year shall be used to support training of 
workers engaged in disaster recovery and rebuilding work.

SEC. 602. PILOT PROGRAM PROVIDING FEDERAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR 
              FORMERLY INCARCERATED FIREFIGHTERS.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretaries shall establish and 
        operate a pilot program, in coordination with eligible States, 
        to provide formerly incarcerated firefighters with the 
        opportunity to be hired to occupy Federal wildland firefighting 
        positions.
            (2) Duration.--The pilot program established under this 
        section shall terminate on the date that is 6 years after the 
        of enactment of this section.
    (b) Application.--An eligible State shall submit an application to 
the Secretaries to participate in the pilot program. Any such 
application shall include, at the minimum, the following:
            (1) A list of the agencies of the eligible State involved 
        in the training and management of the incarcerated firefighter 
        workforce.
            (2) The total number of the incarcerated firefighter 
        workforce used by such State and a description of roles held by 
        incarcerated firefighters.
            (3) The number of incarcerated firefighters expected to be 
        released by such State in the year commencing after the date 
        the application is submitted.
            (4) The number of formerly incarcerated firefighters 
        released by such State that have successfully secured 
        employment in wildland or structural firefighting.
            (5) An estimate of any costs, including staffing costs, 
        such State would incur as a result of participating in the 
        pilot program.
    (c) Recruitment.--
            (1) In general.--The pilot program shall provide for the 
        recruitment, in such form and manner as the Secretaries may 
        prescribe, in consultation with the eligible State, of formerly 
        incarcerated firefighters to occupy Federal wildland 
        firefighting positions. The following requirements shall apply 
        to such recruitment efforts:
                    (A) The participation in the recruitment program by 
                incarcerated firefighters to be voluntary.
                    (B) A presentation shall be made to incarcerated 
                firefighters regarding an overview of Federal wildland 
                firefighting positions.
                    (C) The Secretaries shall--
                            (i) work with incarcerated firefighters and 
                        the eligible State to identify the skills, 
                        interests, and experience of candidates to 
                        determine which Federal wildland firefighting 
                        positions would be most suitable for the 
                        individual;
                            (ii) work with incarcerated firefighters 
                        and the eligible State to identify and address 
                        any potential barriers to employment as a 
                        Federal wildland firefighter, including a lack 
                        of a driver's license, before the firefighter 
                        is released from incarceration; and
                            (iii) collaborate with the eligible State 
                        to ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, 
                        that a decision to hire an incarcerated 
                        firefighter coincides with the release of the 
                        individual from incarceration.
                    (D) The Secretaries and State agencies shall 
                ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that any 
                needs that an incarcerated firefighter or formerly 
                incarcerated may have for voluntary substance abuse, 
                mental health, or other rehabilitative programming are 
                accommodated during the hiring process and after the 
                position has been accepted by the individual.
                    (E) The Secretaries shall ensure that the cost of 
                any additional training required is not a financial 
                burden for a formerly incarcerated firefighter.
            (2) Grants.--Subject to the availability of funds to carry 
        out this section, the Secretaries shall provide grants to 
        eligible States participating in the pilot program to support 
        the State's collaboration with the Secretaries to provide 
        recruitment opportunities for incarcerated firefighters or 
        formerly incarcerated firefighters.
            (3) Waiver of parole and probation requirements.--The 
        Secretaries shall require, at a minimum, that States waive 
        parole and probation requirements to ensure that a formerly 
        incarcerated firefighter can meet the requirements of the 
        position for which the individual is hired.
    (d) Reentry and Retention Support.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to the availability of funds to 
        carry out this section, the pilot program shall provide support 
        services for formerly incarcerated firefighters participating 
        in the program to support the individual's financial stability 
        and successful reentry into and retention within the workforce.
            (2) Financial support.--
                    (A) Application.--The Secretaries shall work with 
                State correctional agencies to develop a process for 
                formerly incarcerated firefighters to apply for 
                financial assistance.
                    (B) Duration and amount.--Financial assistance may 
                be provided for up to 6 months at an amount that 
                ensures the individual's ability to secure stable 
                housing, food, and other basic needs and purchase any 
                equipment, attire, or supplies that may be needed to 
                perform the duties of the Federal wildland firefighting 
                position for which they have been hired.
            (3) Mentorship.--The pilot program shall include a 
        mentorship program that pairs formerly incarcerated 
        firefighters currently employed within the Federal Government 
        with newly hired formerly incarcerated firefighters to support 
        job success and retention.
    (e) Hiring Preference.--During the period the pilot program under 
this section is operational, with respect to examinations for Federal 
wildland firefighting positions in the competitive service (as that 
term is defined in section 2102 of title 5, United States Code), 
competition is restricted to formerly incarcerated firefighters 
participating in the pilot program as long as such firefighters are 
available.
    (f) Reports.--Beginning on the date that is 1 year after the date 
of enactment of this Act and annually thereafter for the duration of 
the pilot program, the Secretaries shall submit a report to the 
Committees on the Judiciary and Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs of the Senate and any other relevant congressional committees 
detailing implementation of the pilot program, including the rate at 
which formerly incarcerated firefighters have been hired by the 
Secretaries.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible state.--The term ``eligible State'' means a 
        State that trains and uses firefighters incarcerated in a State 
        correctional facility to fight wildland fire.
            (2) Federal wildland firefighting positions.--The term 
        ``Federal wildland firefighting positions'' means full-time, 
        permanent positions within the United States Forest Service or 
        in the Department of Interior the duties of which consist of 
        wildland firefighting, including administrative support 
        positions.
            (3) Formerly incarcerated firefighter.--The term ``formerly 
        incarcerated firefighter'' means an individual--
                    (A) who is no longer incarcerated in a State 
                correctional facility and has been trained and used by 
                the State to fight wildland fire; and
                    (B) who the Secretaries determine are qualified and 
                suitable to occupy Federal wildland firefighting 
                positions.
            (4) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the 
        Forest Service, and the Secretary of the Interior.

SEC. 603. DIRECT EMPLOYMENT IN FEMA CORE.

    (a) In General.--Section 306 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (421 U.S.C. 5149) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) In carrying out this Act, the following disaster recovery and 
rebuilding duties shall be included in the duties of the Cadre of On-
Call Response/Recovery Employees of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency:
            ``(1) Debris cleanup.
            ``(2) Residential and commercial reconstruction including 
        rapid repair of partially damaged residences, and installation 
        of tarps on structures with roof damage.
            ``(3) Providing support to existing child and elder care 
        services or organization of new services.
            ``(4) Providing nutritional assistance to impacted 
        communities.
            ``(5) Providing counseling and assistance in accessing 
        public benefits such as Federal Emergency Management Agency 
        grants, Disaster Unemployment Assistance, Disaster Supplemental 
        Nutrition Assistance Program.
            ``(6) Providing logistical support for the supply chain of 
        medical equipment and other goods involved in response efforts.
            ``(7) Carrying out other disaster preparedness and response 
        functions for other emergencies and natural disasters.
    ``(e) In appointing personnel under subsection (c), the 
Administrator shall prioritize appointing unemployed workers with 
experience in the building trades for which such workers are 
qualified.''.
    (b) Additional Requirement.--The Administrator of the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency shall establish up to 15,000 new positions, 
as needed, within the Cadre of On-Call Response/Recovery Employees of 
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and appoint to such positions 
individuals with skills and experience necessary to carry out the 
duties described in section 306(d) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (421 U.S.C. 5149(d)).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
